---
faction: "[[Pathfinder Society]]"
owner: "[[Thulgurn Lastaxe]]"
business:
  - adventuring
district: "[[Little Arm]]"
favour:
---
HOUSING LIBRARY RESEARCH 
**Venture-Captain** [[Thulgurn Lastaxe]]
**Key Members** Karisa Starsight, Azynnia Thine 
**Allies** Yigrig Moneymaker
**Enemies** Ashana Baieer, slavers
**Assets and Services** auguries, lodging, mental health counseling, supplies transportation

Of the four major Pathfinder lodges in the region, only the Farseer Tower remains to house and direct Pathfinder agents. Alongside 
Venture-Captain Phlegos Dulm’s (LE male half-orc herbalist) Kotargo Lodge ([[Merab]]), 
Venture-Captain Roderus’s (NG male human diplomat) Winding Road Lodge ([[Pashow]]), and 
Venture-Captain Aurora Steelbloom’s (NG female half-elf chronicler) simply-named Thuvia Lodge ([[Aspenthar]]), 
Venture-Captain [[Thulgurn Lastaxe]]’s (NG male dwarf seer) Farseer Lodge provided succor and resources to Pathfinders seeking to ply their trade in the dangerous streets and deadly wastes of Thuvia. Over the last decade, however, the Pathfinder Society’s power and presence in Thuvia has waned. Roderus, now nearly 80 years old, *closed his lodge* in the Winding Road Inn and sold the building, using the funds from the sale to finance one last, great adventure into the deserts of Thuvia. The Society uncovered Phlegos Dulm as a *traitor* and an unscrupulous slave trader; when Society agents discovered Phlegos’ perfidy, they drove him from the city and ultimately brought him to justice on an island off the coast of Katapesh. Aurora Steelbloom mysteriously *vanished*, leaving the only clues to where she might have gone sealed in her old lodge behind magical wards and protected by a pair of aluum golems. Today, Thulgurn Lastaxe's Farseer Tower stands as the last safe haven for Pathfinders in the region.
Reaching 6 stories into the Thuvian skyline, Farseer Tower looks like a twisting minaret thrusting up from the chaos of Thuvia’s bustling markets and cramped alleyways. At night, magical magenta lights swirl around and illuminate the tower and its courtyard, reflecting off the white marble to bathe the nearby streets and alleyways in an eerie glow. As dawn breaks over the city, the magical enchantments ebb in response, and soon the unrelenting rays of the desert sun shine alone in the sky until night falls once more. 
Farseer Tower appears larger inside than outside, as pocket dimensions provide access to indoor ponds for swimming and magically sustained hot springs for bathing. A staff of servants, almost all of whom are blind or visually impaired, maintain the tower. Thulgurn, rather poorly sighted himself, has developed many spells and magical techniques to perceive the world around him in a variety of ways; he teaches these spells to people who wish to expand their perception, particularly those with visual impairments. During these extended apprenticeships, Thulgurn instructs his students in divination magic, and they in turn care for the tower as payment. 
These tasks are part of the educational process Thulgurn has developed—as the students become more confident in performing mundane tasks while maintaining their divinations, they also become more skilled at interpreting increasingly complex magical interactions and handling multiple spells that allow them to perceive the flow of life and magic around them with supernatural clarity.
[[Azynnia Thine]] (LN female half-elf seer), Thulgurn’s young chief apprentice, oversees most of the day-to-day training of Thulgurn’s other students. Azynnia has used a variety of transmutation and divination spells to transform one of her eyes into a crystal ball, which she uses to carefully observe the magical emanations surrounding any visitors to the tower and to note any potentially dangerous devices or effects. Other than Thulgurn, only Azynnia possesses the keys and passphrases to all the rooms and vaults in Farseer Tower. Though doing so required Thulgurn to place a great deal of trust in Azynnia, the venture-captain thought it prudent after an incident nearly left him trapped inside a mirror demiplane.
Politically, the Farseer Lodge balances on a knife’s edge. In the past, former venture-captains Aurora Steelbloom and Phlegos Dulm maintained amicable relationships with the monarchs who rule Thuvia. However, the anti-slavery actions and the standing unpaid debt owed by Phlegos Dulm to Mayor [[Ilepodus]] prior to his expulsion from the Society has soured the monarchs’ views toward the Pathfinder Society in general and Thulgurn Lastaxe in particular. While Thulgurn leveraged his wealth and connections to protect his place in the city and to convince the monarchs that the Society shouldn’t inherit Phlegos’s debt, the venture-captain hardly has their favor, which leaves the Society with few allies in Thuvia. 
Farseer Tower’s greatest asset is its unrivaled access to information from across the Inner Sea. Thulgurn’s potent divinations, as well as those of his students and apprentices, reveal untold secrets; the venture-captain knows more than one dangerous secret about high-profile Thuvian movers and shakers, including the true identity of [[Apophis]]. Over his lifetime, Thulgurn has cultivated the skill of knowing how and when to deploy this valuable information. 
Pathfinder agents who stay at Farseer Tower for any length of time, particularly those with a talent for arcane or occult magic, often find themselves drawn into the divination classes held by Thulgurn, where they can pick up minor cantrips for detecting magic, poisons, and the like. Diviners of any discipline can also find a wealth of knowledge related to scrying spells and the creation of crystal balls, and a vast library of divination scrolls and ritual books occupies most of the tower’s third floor. 
Thulgurn Lastaxe also regularly entertains members of the Grand Archive, who value the seer’s information-gathering expertise and the opportunity to make new contacts or learn new methods for uncovering hidden secrets

> [!NOTE] Local Allies
> [[Yigrig Moneymaker]] (CN male goblin merchant; page 59): Yigrig leads a powerful goblin “family” consisting of his biological relatives and numerous liberated goblin slaves. A highly educated former slave who purchased his own freedom, Yigrig now fights to ensure that no other Thuvian goblins languish in slavery

> [!NOTE] THE MONADISTIC ARCHIVE
>  In the 4716 AR, Thulgurn Lastaxe and a team of Pathfinder agents retrieved a valuable collection of scrolls known as the Monadistic Archive. The agents were unable to decipher much of the text of the Monadistic Archive, as only a potent ritual could unlock the true value of this collection of occult knowledge. In order to delve into the scrolls’ secrets, Thulgurn and his Pathfinder allies traveled into an immersive mindscape bound to the occult repository. Within the mindscape, Thulgurn and his companions faced numerous traps and false leads, and the venture-captain nearly found himself sealed in the mindscape by a guardian known as the Archivist. 
>  While the mission failed in many ways (Thulgurn and his allies had to retreat without retrieving the information they sought), Thulgurn and his apprentices have made several journeys into the mindscape in the following years. The scrolls’ depths concealed secrets of the ancient Jistka Imperium, and only Thulgurn can truly say what they might be. However, Thulgurn has shared the most dangerous information he gleaned from the scroll with only the most trusted Pathfinder agents: a spell for temporarily disabling [aluums](https://pathfinderwiki.com/wiki/Aluum), powerful golems used in Katapesh as well as by the ancient Jistka Imperium. For now Thulgurn and his peers keep this knowledge tightly under wraps, though it could revolutionize dungeon delving.

## Venture-Captain 
Thulgurn Lastaxe, sometimes known as the “Seer of Farseer Tower,” came from a wealthy family; his father counted among Thuvia’s most powerful merchants, and his mother had retired from a successful adventuring career. With wealth and privilege at his fingertips, Thulgurn grew up with costly tutors who taught him economics, etiquette, history, and mathematics. From his father, he learned the arts of intrigue and deal-making, and from his mother, he learned the arts of divination, honed by his mother’s years of practical application as an adventurer. 
During Thulgurn’s sixteenth birthday party, assassins hired by one of his father’s mercantile rivals killed his parents. Thulgurn spent several years tracking down the people responsible for the crime, leveraging the vast wealth he inherited from his father and the magical skill she learned from his mother. Ultimately, he confronted the woman who ordered his parents’ deaths, the oracle Ashana Baieer. Thulgurn defeated him in a magical duel and thereafter claimed Ashana’s tower as his own. 
While Thulgurn had learned much about politics and economics from his father and tutors, he had little taste for the business. Investing his inherited wealth into upgrading the tower, Thulgurn then built a reputation as a peerless seer, capable of divining secrets hidden beyond the reach of lesser information brokers and street prophets. Stern in his dealings but kind-hearted and fair, Thulgurn soon caught the attention of the elderly Venture-Captain Roderus. Roderus initially approached Thulgurn in hopes of hiring him as a consultant, but Thulgurn’s keen mind and confident bearing impressed him so much that he immediately offered to sponsor him into the Pathfinder Society. With little tying him to the area, Thulgurn traveled to the Grand Lodge in Absalom and completed initiation as a Pathfinder agent before returning to Thuvia. Thulgurn led missions under Roderus’s direction for the better part of a decade before the aging venture-captain urged Thulgurn to start his own lodge in the city. Thulgurn opened Farseer Tower to his fellow agents as a lodge specializing in investigating the arcane and esoteric secrets hidden in and around the city of Lamasara. 
As a venture-captain, Thulgurn cares deeply for the health and well-being of the agents he sends on missions, but he also believes that acquiring knowledge requires taking risks. Thulgurn won’t ask an agent working under his to take any risk he wouldn’t accept himself, and he confidently accepts most of the risk involved in missions whenever possible. 
### Diviner’s Nose Chain 
Thulgurn Lastaxe’s signature nose chain is a carefully crafted item containing numerous powerful spells of divination and sensory manipulation. While no one other than Thulgurn knows all the secrets hidden within his personal chain, he does teach his apprentices and Pathfinders who earn his favor how to create a lesser, but potent, variant.
#### DIVINER’S NOSE CHAIN ITEM 9 
UNCOMMON DIVINATION MAGICAL 
**Price** 650 gp 
**Usage** worn; Bulk – 
The diviner’s nose chain is worn by attaching piercings to the ear and nose, creating a connection between the senses of hearing and smell. The diviner’s nose chain grants you *scent* out to 30 feet as an *imprecise sense*, and a *+1 item bonus* to checks to *Seek or Sense Motive*. 

## Pathfinder Operations 
Secrets and treasures alike hide in the twisting alleys, bustling markets, and sand-swept reaches of Thuvia, waiting for the clever or the lucky to seize the opportunity to discover and claim them. Many unusual relics find their way into Thuvia’s markets, drawn from the desert sands or mixed among an array of priceless and worthless knickknacks. Full-time merchant and part-time thief **Arbudazhad the Even-handed** (CN male human purveyor of antiquities) traffics particularly questionable magical goods, hoping to sell them to the Pathfinder Society. While Thulgurn Lastaxe and his apprentices have keen noses for sniffing out and avoiding undesirable deals, Arbudazhad occasionally has something valuable enough to tempt even the most cautious seers. Such finds usually require several sets of skilled hands holding dangerous implements to properly examine. 
The goblin **Yigrig Moneymaker** (CN male goblin merchant) and his extended family of goblin spies, labourers, bodyguards, and porters (all with -ig names. Biggie the bodyguard, Lig the labourer, etc) are some of the Pathfinder Society’s most valuable allies in Thuvia, though the relationship comes with its drawbacks. While Yigrig has cultivated an urbane demeanor that complements his deep voice and clever wit, most of his adopted “children” hew closer to the stereotype of goblins as pyromaniac horse-killers. Warehouse fires and kidnappings are common issues among Yigrig’s family; occasionally the goblins turn to their allies in the Pathfinder Society for help in sorting through such tribulations, or their aftermath. 
Most people living in Lamasara know that [[Kylas Akhom]] controls the [[The Other Hand|Other Hand]]. Very few know that years ago, Kylas was murdered by a rakshasa who now oversees the Other Hand disguised as the powerful human. While Thulgurn’s divinations have yet to pierce the rakshasa’s façade, he has noted enough incongruities to suspect something about Kylas. Thulgurn’s investigations have led him to take note of a gnoll fugitive named **Shimon-Je** (NG female gnoll abolitionist), who the Other Hand's agents seem to pursue with unusual fervor. The venture-captain now ponders how he might reach Shimon-Je first without accidentally leading assassins to the gnoll or tipping his hand and becoming the target of assassination attempts himself. 
While **Ashana Baieer**, the woman who hired the assassins that slew Thulgurn Lastaxe’s parents, might have lost her duel with the venture-captain of Farseer Tower, the oracle considers the matter far from settled. Ashana spent the better part of two decades trapped inside her own mind following her fight with Thulgurn, who used a complex series of offensive divinations to swap Ashana’s senses around and deactivate some entirely. Over the years, the oracle has gradually relearned how to function through the confusing haze of magic, and she now seeks revenge. Ashana has slowly begun to increase her power in Lamasara’s dark underbelly(independent of the factions, she's stealing things to make immensely powerful mutagens); she intends to reclaim Farseer Tower and drive Thulgurn Lastaxe and the Pathfinder Society out of Thuvia permanently.
