## On the Road 
The mysterious partial poem from the mechanical head, along with Tahar’s fears, all point to the poet being in trouble. Tahar knows Valls lives in a small house about a day’s journey by camel west of Lamasara. He can provide general directions, but the PCs will have to track Valls’s exact location on their own. If the PCs succeed at a *DC 19 Diplomacy check to Gather Information*, it takes them 2 hours to talk to other writers and merchants in Lamasara to locate Valls’s residence. A critical success halves the amount of time. A failure means it takes 4 hours to get the information, while a critical failure means it takes 8 hours. 
Once the PCs leave Lamasara and the lands irrigated by the Junira behind, it doesn’t take long before the landscape becomes much more challenging. Read or paraphrase the following after they leave the city. 
==The first few miles west of Lamasara are green, lush, and covered with crops. The farmland ends abruptly, however, and soon after, the land becomes rocky and dry. A few scattered palm trees grow in patches to either side of the road leading west, a sign that water exists but is far less abundant. Over the course of several more miles the road winds through low, hard-packed hills. To the north and south stretches a long expanse of sand. The occasional house is visible from the road, usually tucked behind a hill or dug into the ground. After a few hours, the road forks at a place where the rocky terrain prevents too much sand from blowing onto the path.== 
#### WATER LORD BANDITS MODERATE 4 
Although it’s at the border of his territory based in the Silver Frond Oasis, the Water Lord **Almeth** (LE male elf brigand 8) has claimed the lands immediately west of Lamasara’s domain as his own. This includes the lands where Valls lives, although Almeth only recently became aware of the poet’s presence. They’ve never met, but Almeth is a tremendous fan of Valls’s epic poems about the mythic heroes of Thuvia’s past. A week ago, Almeth sent a group of his followers to talk to the poet and deliver a message to him. Unfortunately, Seddek had already abducted Valls by this time. When these messengers arrived, they were immediately attacked by the sand wolves the janni left behind as guards. Two of the messengers were slain and the rest fled. Knowing they would be in serious trouble if they returned without completing their mission, the bandits decided to raid caravans until they found something useful they could present to Almeth on their return and hopefully assuage their leader’s anger. 
**Creatures**: When the PCs encounter them, the bandits have set up an ambush at the crossroads in the desert. They first attempt to cow their prey by threatening them and promising to leave them unharmed if they turn over their valuables. If that doesn’t work, they attack and try to take the valuables by force. They fight until two of their number are killed or captured, at which point the rest flee into the desert in hopes of leaving the area and finding a new life somewhere else. 

#### WATER LORD BANDITS (4) 
[NE](https://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=95) [Medium](https://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=445) [Human](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=90) [Humanoid](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=91)   
**Perception** +6  
**Languages** [Common](https://2e.aonprd.com/Languages.aspx?ID=1)  
**Skills** [Athletics](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=3) +6, [Deception](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=5) +5, [Forest Lore](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=8) +4, [Intimidation](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=7) +6, [Stealth](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=15) +8, [Survival](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=16) +6, [Thievery](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=17) +8  
**Str** +3, **Dex** +3, **Con** +1, **Int** +0, **Wis** +2, **Cha** +1  
**Items** [hatchet](https://2e.aonprd.com/Weapons.aspx?ID=27), [sling (10 bullets)](https://2e.aonprd.com/Weapons.aspx?ID=72), [studded leather armor](https://2e.aonprd.com/Armor.aspx?ID=5)
**AC** 19; **Fort** +7, **Ref** +9, **Will** +6  
**HP** 30  
**Bandit's Ambush** When the bandit rolls initiative using [Deception](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=5) or [Stealth](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=15), they can attempt to [Demoralize](https://2e.aonprd.com/Actions.aspx?ID=53) one creature as a free action.
**Speed** 25 feet  
**Melee** `pf2:1` hatchet +9 (+5/+1) ([agile](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=170), [sweep](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=194)), **Damage** 1d6+5 slashing
**Ranged** `pf2:1` sling +9 (+4/-1) ([propulsive](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=191), [range increment 50 feet](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=248), [reload 1](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=254)), **Damage** 1d6+3 bludgeoning
**Ranged** `pf2:1` hatchet +9 (+5/+1) ([agile](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=170), [sweep](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=194), [thrown 10 feet](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=195)), **Damage** 1d6+5 slashing
**Dread Striker** [Frightened](https://2e.aonprd.com/Conditions.aspx?ID=19) creatures are [flat-footed](https://2e.aonprd.com/Conditions.aspx?ID=16) to the bandit.
**Favored Terrain** The bandit ignores the effects of non-magical difficult terrain in deserts. 

**Development**: If the PCs capture a bandit and make his attitude at least indifferent (they’re hostile to start), he explains that he works for the Water Lord Almeth and was sent to give a message to the poet Valls who lives nearby. One of the bandits carries a note with the following message: “Dear poet Valls. I am most eager to have you as a guest at my home in the Silver Frond Oasis, which lies to the west of your dwelling. I am a great admirer of your work and would be honored if you would visit. The bearers of this message can easily guide you to my home should you wish to come. Sincerely, Almeth.” If asked about what they were supposed to do, the bandit explains they were explicitly told not to harm the poet and to leave him alone if he refused to accompany them. Almeth made it clear that he admires the poet and wants to build a friendship. The bandit further describes how canine creatures made of sand attacked his group and how they ripped apart his two companions.
**Treasure**: In addition to the note described above, the bandits were sent with a *staff of healing* as a gift to prove their honorable intentions toward the poet.

## The Poet’s House 
Despite his fame, or perhaps because of it, the poet Valls sought a place to live far from the more populated areas of Thuvia. His earliest, most successful poems retell and reimagine the great heroes of Thuvia’s past: warrior-kings and -queens, long battles with the divs of the desert, and the founding of the five major cities of the land. In recent years, however, Valls has felt the need to focus on the long history and deep traditions of the common people of Thuvia who thrive in the desert day by day. He decided to build a second home in the traditional style of many desert-dwelling Thuvians, and this place helps him remain connected to those roots. 
Characters who *Investigate* the area and succeed at a *DC 18 Society, Thuvia Lore, or similar Lore skill check* recognize the sunken construction as typical of traditional houses in the region, with a design that helps dwellers stay cool in the blazing sun and protected from harsh winds. On a critical success, a character knows that while the house is built in a traditional style, it’s also a relatively new construction. 
### A1. COURTYARD SEVERE 4 
==A traditionally-built desert home has been dug into the desert here, the walls lined with clay painted a bright red. The palm tree near the well provides shade, while short passages to the east and west hint at further rooms built into the ground to provide shelter from the desert sun. A small garden grows in the northwest corner, and a set of stairs on the west provide access to the courtyard from the ground level.== 
Much of Valls’s time is spent taking care of his little garden, although he also purchases supplies from nearby farmers and traders to keep himself well-fed. The red walls of the courtyard and interior rooms made it difficult for Zridi to abduct the poet herself, since the color red is abhorrent to pairaka divs. Instead, she tasked Seddek to kidnap Valls. To ensure the janni succeeded, Zridi supplied him with two sand wolves, and although Seddek accomplished his mission, his clumsy commands to the wolves (see Creatures below) mean rumors have spread among travelers in the area that something is amiss. 
A character who Investigates the area and succeeds at a *DC 20 Religion or Society check* remembers that the color red is thought to ward off evil spirits and divs by many Thuvians. With a critical success at a Religion check, the character recalls the color being specifically associated with the insidious pairaka divs. 
**Creatures**: Seddek left two sand wolves here. They’ve been commanded to attack anyone who enters the courtyard and fight until destroyed, but they don’t pursue anyone beyond 30 feet of the poet’s house. In addition to these rather straightforward commands, Seddek’s parting words were to “keep yourselves busy,” meaning the sand wolves have been digging in the sand and performing howling dirges through the day and night. Characters who are *Searching* and succeed at a *DC 17 Perception check* as they approach the location can hear the sound of this howling before getting in sight of the creatures. 
#### SAND WOLVES (2) CREATURE 5 
UNCOMMON LARGE AIR BEAST EARTH
**Perception** +14; Low-Light Vision, Tremorsense (Imprecise) 30 Feet
**Language** Petran, Sussuran; (can't speak any language)
**Skills** Athletics: +12, Performance: +13, Stealth: +11 (+13 in deserts), Survival: +12
Str 5, Dex 4 Con 2 Int -2 Wis 2 Cha 3
**AC** 21; **Fort** +12, **Ref** +15, **Will** +9
**HP** 92; **Weaknesses** water 5; **Resistances** acid 5, electricity 5, piercing 5, slashing 5
**Collapse Into Sand** `pf2:r` **Trigger** The sand wolf is hit by an attack
**Effect** The sand wolf's body falls apart into a cloud of sand. It takes no damage from the triggering attack, and its resistances increase to 8. The sand wolf must spend one action to reform its body before it can move or attack.
**Water Vulnerability** Sand wolves take 5 additional damage from attacks and effects with the water trait.
**Speed** 30 feet, burrow 20 feet, fly 20 feet
**Melee** `pf2:1` Jaws +14 **Damage** 2d6 + 5 piercing plus Grab 
**Ranged** `pf2:1` Sand Blast +12 (range 30 feet) **Damage** 2d10 slashing
**Choking Sands** `pf2:2` (air,earth,primal) The sand wolf discorporates into a cloud of whirling sand. It can Stride, moving freely through occupied spaces. Any creatures within those spaces take 2d10 damage and must attempt a *DC 19 Reflex check save*.
	**Critical Success** The target takes no damage. 
	**Success** The target takes half damage. 
	**Failure** The target takes full damage and is Sickened 1. 
	**Critical Failure** As failure, but the effect is increased to Sickened 3.
**Susurrating Song** `pf2:1` (air,earth,primal,sonic) The sand wolf sings a short, enchanting song. Any creature other than a sand wolf within 30 feet must attempt a *DC 19 Will check save*.
	**Critical Success** The target is unaffected and is temporarily immune to further susurrating song exposures for 24 hours. 
	**Success** The target is Stupefied 1. 
	**Failure** The target is Stupefied 2. 
	**Critical Failure** As failure, and the target is Slowed 1.

> [!NOTE] TRAVELING TO SEE ALMETH
> Although the clues suggest Almeth has nothing to do with the disappearance of Valls, the PCs might still want to investigate the lead. The Silver Frond Oasis is a full day’s journey directly west through rocky desert. It’s a lush, verdant area surrounding a pond fed by springs. The elf bandit is curious about visitors and initially orders his forces to allow the PCs to pass. His attitude begins as indifferent, and he’s eager for word regarding Valls. He’s deeply disturbed by any news that the poet is missing, but he explains that he hasn’t heard anything about it. If he’s at least friendly, he offers continued safe passage through his territory. Additionally, he offers the PCs a reward of 50 gp if they return Valls safely and provide him with an introduction. If the interaction at the oasis goes sour and a fight break out, the camp typically has a dozen human and half-elf bandits. For Almeth, use the statistics for an elite bandit.

### A2. KITCHEN AND DINING 
==A short flight of stairs leads halfway up the wall of the courtyard to a room carved into the hard-packed earth. A red curtain fringed with gold covers a doorway. Inside, the walls are painted a bright red. A fireplace is carved into a niche in the southern wall. Shelves that contain a variety of ingredients and cooking utensils stand to the east above a table cut into the earth. The northern part of the room has a low table and several cushions.==
A character who Investigates the room can tell that whoever lived here left in a hurry, as a pot in the burned out fireplace contains the charred remains of meat and grains. If a character succeeds at a *DC 16 Perception check*, they notice the kitchen utensils on the food preparation table to the east are dirty, and pests have gotten into the stored food. With a critical success, a character can piece together a rough time line, realizing that whoever lived here has been gone for several weeks, perhaps even a few months. 
### A3. BEDROOM 
==Beyond a fringed red curtain is a short hallway that opens into a cave-like bedroom carved from the earth and painted a dark red. Cut into the wall to the west is a bed covered with a simple sleeping pallet and a light woolen blanket. The east half of the room features a table cut into the wall, a small stool, and shelves lined with books. Papers lie scattered about the entire area.== 
Valls was here working at his desk when Seddek and his subordinates found him. He tried to fend off the attackers but was quickly overwhelmed and tied up. The poet was then taken to the Temple of the Scorching Sun and held by the Usij cultists there. Characters who Investigate the area and succeed at a *DC 19 Perception check* see clear signs of a struggle, although nothing suggests that anyone was killed. 
**Treasure**: Valls’s library contains valuable tomes worth 40 gp. 
### SEARCHING THE POET’S HOUSE 
While the poet isn’t anywhere in the house, the PCs can find several important clues and items if they spend time looking around. A character who *Searches* for at least 10 minutes finds several letters in the bedroom desk. They appear to be correspondences between Valls and two other members of the arts community in Lamasara, but none of the writers use their names, only the single letters “V,” “D,” and “S.” They discuss a collaborative work that all three are undertaking, and each expresses a great deal of excitement about how important this work will be to Thuvia as a whole.
A character who Investigates the letters and succeeds at a *DC 19 Perception or Society check* can compare the writing samples to drafts of poems Valls has tucked away and determine that he’s one of the three correspondents, and that he seems to be responsible for writing an epic poem that will be used in something called an “anbarit.” On a critical success, the character notes that a few lines in the letters describe “a new assistant” that D sent who has been very helpful in recording and trying out new versions of the poem. The letters also express excitement at D’s recent move to Lamasara from Duwwor and congratulate them on finding a new space that will allow their work to blossom. 
Searching the house turns up a crushed metallic device under a cushion in the kitchen. The item is shaped like a cone that has been bent, scuffed, and nearly flattened. A character who Investigates it and succeeds at a *DC 18 Engineering Lore check* realizes it’s designed to slot into the mechanical head; on a critical success, the character realizes the device is designed to allow someone to speak into the cone while it’s attached and cause the clockwork to record their words. This recording can be played back when the clockwork is fully wound. 
A character who Searches the bedroom also finds a key tucked under the pillow on the bed. It has a strange shape that any character *trained in Crafting or Engineering Lore* can recognize as a type used in clockworks. Using this key with the mechanical head allows the device to be wound farther than before. If the PCs do so, read or paraphrase the following. 

==Rapid clicking suddenly emanates from the mechanical head, followed by the metallic ring of a single high note. “Oh, that seems to have… unlocked something in my memory I did not know was there,” it says in a calm, metallic voice that’s occasionally interrupted by a pause. “And I can… speak again. I’d forgotten how.” After a moment, it begins reciting what sounds like a poem: 
“When one of our own found eternal life in the deepest desert, 
We traded it to foreigners so that we would be prosperous together, 
So that our ingenuity would bring us independence forever. 
Some say we are nothing without its lure. 
They say we are unbound, one man alone, 
A land of sand and sun and nothing else.”== 

The clockwork can’t recall the next lines and seems puzzled by this lapse. It also greets the PCs and realizes it doesn’t know its name or designation. 
### INVESTIGATING THE HEAD’S FUNCTIONS
Until it’s further repaired, the device’s speech synthesizer is prone to glitches and random pauses. A character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Engineering Lore or Crafting check* can remove the pauses in its speech; a critical success means the character understands how to repair the recording device and reattach it to the clockwork. The PCs can then use the recording device at any time to store spoken words. 
Now that the clockwork is capable of more than just reciting the poem, the PCs likely have many questions for it. Unfortunately, it doesn’t yet recall much about its existence before Tahar reactivated it. Nevertheless, here are some likely questions the PCs might ask and the clockwork’s replies. 
**What are you?** “I believe I am a… mechanical assistant. I am not sure who… built me or whom I served.” 
**What is your name?** “Unknown. Perhaps you could… provide me with a designation?” 
**What do you remember?** “I know the information I have… already shared of the poem stored within me, but it feels… incomplete. I am unable to access the rest of the lines. I apologize.” 
**Do you know Valls?** “That name sounds… familiar, but I cannot recall why. Can you tell me who that is?” 
**Repairing the Clockwork**: A character who examines the clockwork, once the new key has been discovered, and wants to fix the device can attempt a *DC 20 Crafting or Engineering Lore check*. With a success, the character realizes there are specialized tools needed for the task, many of them probably custom-made. 
**The Letters**: If the PCs share the information in the letters out loud around the mechanical head, it immediately reacts by playing a recording it took right before its head was ripped off. Read or paraphrase the following. 
==The mechanical head reacts to the words in the letter quite dramatically. Its eyelids flutter, and what sounds like a woman’s angry voice spills from the construct. “Fine then. If those fools at Ilhiin’s temple can’t handle a simple poet, I’ll step in myself. And why is this construct here?! No one is to know our plan!” There’s a metallic shriek, and the recording abruptly stops.==
A character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Society or Thuvia Lore check* knows Ilhiin is a small, relatively unknown village about two days northwest of Lamasara; with a critical success, they also know that the village stands near the ruins of an ancient settlement. A character can find similar information by succeeding at a *DC 18 Diplomacy check* to Gather Information and spending 2 hours talking to people in Lamasara.
With these details in hand, the PCs are likely to set out for the village. 
**XP Award** If the characters learn of Ilhiin, award them 20 XP
