## Overview 
Many stories about Thuvia revolve around the sun orchid elixir. This isn’t one of those stories.
A nation of five city-states, Thuvia originated in the deserts of northern Garund when numerous nomadic groups united against two invaders—the Jistka Imperium to the west and the empire of Osirion to the east—to form the Tekritanin League in the Age of Destiny. The Tekritanin League was  ultimately defeated, but after some time, the people of Thuvia rose up and established their own land once again with the power of their five cities. 
Today, the sun orchid elixir, the marvelous concoction that extends life, is central to the nation’s international might and renown. But many outside Thuvia don’t realize that the city Merab is a powerhouse of trade and leadership, instead seeing it as the birthplace of Artokus Kirran—the sun orchid elixir’s creator. Nor do they know of the military might of Aspenthar, whose forces were instrumental in throwing off the yoke of Osiriani oppression, or the harmonious way in which Pashow uses magic to provide for its people. Likewise, few beyond Garund are aware of how Duwwor’s druids and technologists make the most from the surrounding desert, though plenty have heard of the diplomacy of Lamasara, along with its beautiful gardens and vibrant arts community—which is where our story begins. 
For years now, Zridi, a vindictive *pairaka div*, has insinuated herself into various communities in Lamasara. Her focus has mainly been on personal calamities, driving powerful people against each other or building up a promising creator and then slowly tearing them down. As all divs seek to thwart mortal accomplishments and destroy their works, pairakas focus on destroying mortal relationships and severing communal bonds. In Lamasara, Zridi saw a garden of accomplishments and creations she could spoil for her own twisted pleasure. She began by instigating small spats between artists, setting up volatile pairings between collaborators, or even directly sabotaging galleries or showhouses. Zridi did it all under disguise or through proxies, but over time, she grew bored with these petty cruelties. Strangely, she also grew fond of some of these artists and got past her initial dismissal of their works; she even began to appreciate some of the stories she’d read or the inventive songs she heard. To aid in her plots, she insinuated herself in the art community in Lamasara and began to guide their action a little more directly by posing as a patron. Zridi would use ill-gotten gold and a considerable skill for suggestion to fund wild projects for artists. Some she would let come to fruition, but others she would keep funding only long enough to get the protege’s hopes up before sabotaging it just to watch the artist collapse in despair. She sponsored poets, playwrights, composers, and inventors, then harried their dreams with nightmares until they gave up their craft. Zridi saw her move involved approach as a way to dash the hopes of new and upcoming talent as well as disappoint the audiences who watched as the creators imploded. 
As Zridi harvest hopes and dreams, she cultivated a network of associates and underworld connections, as well as Usij cultists who worshipped Ahriman, Lord of the Divs. Among them was a handsome janni named Seddek, who served as her muscle and errand boy. Together, they wormed their way into the confidences of many in Lamasara. 
Even as Zridi undertook this approach to fulfilling her drive to sow distrust and hatred among mortals, she found herself appreciating the work of several established artists. Two of these favorites were the poet **Valls Beida** (NG male human poet 8) and the composer **Sefalia Naaljal** (CG female human composer 6). Zridi was drawn to the traditional tales Valls told of Thuvia from long ago—a time she dimly remembered when she lived near the House of Oblivion before Ahriman’s banishment. She particularly liked the characterization of the divs in Valls’s work, as it instilled a healthy fear in his readers of the pairaka and her kin. She, along with two other patrons, sponsored Valls’s second volume of his epic trilogy From League to Legends, supporting him financially as he completed that collection of Thuvian poems. She eagerly awaited the third volume of his poetry that was set to complete a cycle of these traditional tales. 
Zridi also became enamored with the music written by the composer Sefalia, who studied with Valls at the Blossoming Sun Academy of Arts in Merab and relocated to Lamasara a few years ago. In addition to her use of traditional Thuvian music, Sefalia liked to surprise and confuse listeners, working disharmony into her themes. Something about these compositions tugged at the core of Zridi’s essence, and though she didn’t know much about music, she knew she liked Sefalia’s work and went to every performance she could. She even went as far as to sponsor a trip Sefalia took to Osirion to study for a few months. Neither Valls nor Sefalia had any suspicion that Zridi was anything other than the kindly, middle-aged Osiriani woman she disguised herself as. 
As their reputations increased over the years, Valls and Sefalia began to talk more and more about collaborating. They also kept in close contact with a dear friend from their time in university, **Dhia Joulue** (CG nonbinary inventor 8), an inventive tinkerer who frequently traveled from their home in Duwwor to meet up with Valls and Sefalia for weeks at a time. Some don’t consider Dhia’s craft to be a traditional approach to art. The tinkerer had always been deeply interested in mechanical devices, at first for their practical uses to improve daily life. As their skill evolved, they came to see machines as a means to express truth. When someone demonstrated the grace in a device, they showed that truth. Believing that the functional could be artistic and beautiful, Dhia even once argued, in jest, that Sefalia’s compositions were just an expression of mathematics. 
During one of these visits, Dhia mentioned how they were creating clockwork dancers to perform for one of the wealthy families in Merab. They expressed the difficulty of programming a clockwork construct to not always move with perfect, measured precision. The idea of this work intrigued Sefalia and Valls, and soon, all three had decided they would join together collectively and produce an anbarit—a new type of performance that incorporated spoken poetry, music, and dance. They all agreed to put their other projects on hold and focus fully on this new effort. That would mean Valls wouldn’t be completing the third volume of From League to Legends after all, and Sefalia would cancel her residency at Glass Gardens Theater after the next set of shows. Dhia, on the verge of completing their project, would pack up their workshop and relocate to Lamasara. The three wanted to keep their collaboration a secret and worked hard to keep adoring fans and eager patrons in the dark.
Their idea to merge their different strengths into a powerful piece inspired them to theme the anbarit on unity, just as the unity of the five city-states of Thuvia makes the nation strong. Valls’s knowledge of and love for Thuvian history was certainly a driving factor in that decision, but since each had seen small squabbles between the cities during their lives, usually surrounding the auction, they also felt that such a theme would strengthen the bonds between the nation’s people. It could bring them together as strong as they were in old times when they fought back against two powerful empires.
Spending days on end in Sefalia’s home on the outskirts of town, the three quickly began to develop their anbarit that they titled *The Amity Cycle*. They started reaching out to patrons around the city but were careful to keep the details of the project secret to help build surprise. While searching for patrons, Valls came across Zridi, who was eagerly awaiting the third volume of his epic poetry. Valls replied that he was switching gears and working on something else for a while. When she became upset and offered to fund the third volume for double what she contributed the last time, he rebuffed her offer, claiming what he was working on was important to him, “—and to Thuvia.” 
This rejection infuriated the div in ways she didn’t expect. She’d begun to feel she was owed the final volume in the series, and yet another delay was simply too much. She must have it. Zridi kept these thoughts inside, however, and pretended she was excited to see what Valls would write next. When she received similar information the next time she saw Sefalia, who told her she wouldn’t be finishing the symphony she’d worked on while in Osirion just yet, the pairaka became increasingly suspicious and resentful. 
As Zridi fumed, she stalked the two artists, often in the form of a mangy street dog or a random fan. She discovered that the two were actually three, and Valls and Sefalia seemed quite close to one another. She watched the three collaborators to see what manner of project they were working on. What she discovered stoked a burning flame of hatred. Not only was Valls not finishing the third volume, but he was building a strong relationship and hoping to encourage national pride, bringing Thuvians closer together. Pairakas exist to destroy such bonds, and seeing her favorite artists put aside the art Zridi believed she was owed felt personal. She saw it as an affront and dedicated herself to breaking these three and turning their beautiful creation into a seed of ruin. 
This anbarit they discussed needed to be destroyed, Zridi decided, and the collaborators’ reputations with it. In a fury, she traveled to the inner desert, intending to visit the House of Oblivion for inspiration. While on her sojourn, she was struck with a series of visions that revealed the steps of a ritual that took the anbarit and altered it to sow discord and destruction. Certain that Ahriman sent these visions, she immediately began developing a plan. 
While Zridi was on her pilgrimage, Valls, Sefalia, and Dhia were hard at work, busy writing poems and narration, composing music, choreographing dances, and building mechanical performers and set pieces. To drum up interest in the artistic community about their new project (but careful to not reveal too much), they stealthily hung up posters around Lamasara. These red posters contained a pentagonal logo above the word “Amity.” 
As the anbarit grew closer to completion, the three artists began seeking out a place to perform their debut. Lamasara was an obvious choice, but they wanted to debut during auction season, and Lamasara wouldn’t host the auction for another two years. This year, the auction was set to occur in Merab in just a few months, which wouldn’t provide much time to secure a venue and transport everything needed to perform there. The artists were undecided. Though Thuvian citizens can’t purchase the elixir, many still attend the annual auction for the ancillary commerce. Numerous performers also follow the auction circuit, since whichever city holds the auction becomes inundated with travelers eager to bid on the rare elixir. On the other hand, many people of means who wished to avoid the crowds come to Lamasara during auction season for the plentiful entertainment, delicious food, and unparalleled leisure. The trio of artists believed that their anbarit extolling the unity of Thuvia’s five cities would be a perfect way to remind citizens that they’re one nation and to show off the virtues of Thuvia to the foreigners who visited. They were still trying to finalize a location, and had even found a viable theater, when disaster struck.
Zridi had been busy enacting her plan. She sent her lackey Seddek to recruit the Usij cultists in the area to support her efforts. She made overtures to the secretive community of scrapborn, bizarre aberrations who dwell beneath the city. With these forces readied, she sent a group of Usij cultists to capture the composer Sefalia and imprison her in her own house. Since the poet Valls had painted and decorated his house in red, a color Zridi intrinsically can’t tolerate, she sent her follower Seddek to capture the poet and bring him to the city. Finally, she personally led a group of gremlins to abduct and imprison the tinkerer Dhia. Through physical, magical, and psychological coercion, Zridi found ways to force each of the three to assist her in rewriting and corrupting their own work, which Zridi snidely refers to as *The Enmity Cycle*.
Her plans continued untroubled for several weeks, during which time Zridi’s anger and resentment toward the three artists spread to the rest of the arts community in Lamasara. Her entitlement grew, and in it bubbled a poisonous enmity toward anyone who supported Valls and Sefalia. Zridi wanted others to hurt like she had—she wanted them to feel the same resentment. One day, while she forced the three artists to work on their ruined project, her anger got the best of her, and she ripped the head off Dhia’s mechanical assistant, dropped it in a box, and sent it via courier as a taunt to a patron who had supported Valls’s work in the past, the dwarf merchant Tahar Khalud. Though damaged, the mechanical head still functioned. It had been programmed to recite the opening poem of The Amity Cycle, which it did as Tahar opened the package. Confused at first, Tahar recognized the style of verse and remembered Valls mentioning something about clockworks in his last letter. Little does he know that Valls is now being forced to work on a magical performance that’s intended to bring disaster upon Thuvia. 
If it’s performed, the corrupted version of the anbarit—The Enmity Cycle—will infect the minds of all who hear it. Worse still, the audience members will become compelled to share its nihilistic message of death and obliteration to those nearby. Zridi hopes this act, held at the height of festivities leading up to the sun orchid elixir auction, might spread word of the anbarit to all parts of Thuvia and lead to the dissolution of the bonds connecting the five cities.

## Getting Started 
The adventure begins in the Thuvian city of Lamasara, famed for its beauty, diplomacy, and thriving arts community. The city is situated on the banks of the Junira River, a broad, slow-moving body of water that’s used for shipping and transportation, as well as leisure by the many pleasure craft that ply its waters. Lamasara is a colorful place that attracts visitors from around the Inner Sea who share a love of performance, art, and culture.
The player characters in The Enmity Cycle could be citizens of Lamasara or anyplace else in Thuvia. They could’ve come to the city for a relaxing break between adventures or to see an art exhibit or performance that has piqued their interest. The characters could also be artists and have crossed paths with a patron or are friends with some of the imperiled artists in this story. In particular, the PCs need to find a reason to answer a summons from a dwarf merchant and patron of the arts, **Tahar Khalud** (NG male dwarf merchant 7) who recently received a worrisome, if not confusing, parcel.
### Meeting with Tahar 
Tahar devoted his family’s fortune to the arts. He’s particularly a fan of poetry, spending a great deal of time reading collections of verse or attending one of the numerous public readings in town. He has sponsored numerous poets and performers over the last 50 years, but he finds the work of Valls, whose historical epics are remarkably popular, to be his favorite. When Valls came to him with a request for additional funding for a new work, Tahar jumped at the chance. He could see Valls’s excitement and wanted to help the great poet contribute another work to his already impressive oeuvre.
The PCs receive a note from Tahar via messenger that asks the PCs to meet with him at his residence as soon as possible to discuss a concerning matter. The messenger herself doesn’t know anything else; she works for a courier service and politely but quickly leaves for her next job.
Cautious PCs might spend time learning about Tahar before meeting him. A character who succeeds at a DC 18 Diplomacy check to Gather Information learns he’s from a long line of merchants who are generally respected within Lamasara. The dwarf merchant operates several textile mills, and their materials are used for clothing across the region. A critical success is enough to hear that Tahar has a sizable number of artists and musicians whom he supports with generous contributions. If any of the PCs were already familiar with Tahar, they might already know some or all of this information.
When the PCs decide to visit Tahar, the journey takes them just outside of Lamasara to the south of the city in an area of beautiful, verdant land that borders the Junira River. Farmlands and groves of dates stand on either side of the road. Tahar’s house looks like a simple whitewashed stone structure on a low rise overlooking the Junira. As they arrive, read or paraphrase the following.

==The soft burbling of a marble fountain fills the courtyard of a beautifully crafted mansion. The green lawn is perfectly manicured, and two palm trees provide shade for the comfortable stone benches arranged around a small, circular table. Gold leaf decorates the walls and central dome of the mansion, and sunbeams dance about the area. A clean-shaven dwarf, dressed in fine white robes accented with gold, walks toward you and sets the tray he was carrying on the table. In addition to several glasses of water, there’s a small bowl full of dates. He then bows briefly, pops a date into his mouth, eats it, and drinks from one of the glasses before turning to the group. A smile touches his eyes as he speaks. “Greetings, my friends. Would you care for some refreshment?” He gestures toward the tray of drinks and dates.== 

Characters who are trained in Society or who succeed at a *DC 16 Society check* recognize the offer of dates and drinks, as well as the consuming of a sample of each first, as a small ceremony often used to show the host has no ill intentions toward their guests. Refusing to respond in kind by eating and drinking is a minor insult, although a character who refuses and explains their choice can smooth any offense by succeeding at a *DC 19 Diplomacy check*. Even if the PCs manage to upset Tahar, he still needs their service. Whether or not they join in the food and drink, Tahar continues.

==“Thank you for accepting my invitation. I am sure you are full of questions. When news that a skilled group of adventurers in Lamasara reached my ears, I knew Desna’s luck and Shelyn’s blessings were on my side, for I have a concern I think you could help me with. First, though, allow me to introduce myself. I am Tahar Khalud, and this is my home. Please, tell me something of yourselves so we can become comfortable."==

Once all the players have had a chance to speak, read or paraphrase the following. 

==“While I myself am not skilled in such matters, I am a lover of the arts. I feel my fortune is best spent bringing joy and love to Thuvia, and I know the arts can do that. I have dedicated the last fifty years of my life to earning money to support my family and the arts here in the city and beyond. Many artists and musicians have come to me over the years asking for patronage, and I am pleased to say I rarely had to turn anyone away. “You can imagine my excitement, then, when the famous poet Valls Beida came to me and spoke of a new undertaking that I could help support. I can assure you I immediately agreed! The famous Valls! Can you imagine?” Tahar seems lost in thought for a moment before he continues. “But now I fear there is some kind of trouble. Valls has not sent his regular update to me in two weeks, and just two days ago, I received a very strange package.” Tahar claps his hands, and a servant emerges from a nearby doorway carrying a basket. Tahar reaches into the basket with both hands and pulls out a gleaming metal object that looks vaguely like a humanoid head. He fiddles with a knob on the device and it begins speaking: “When we were challenged by the land and beasts, We cultivated the land between shore and peaks. When pressed by enemies on all sides, We came together and fought back our oppressors. When we recognized our strength, We built our cities and strengthened our bo—” it says before a sharp popping sound silences the device. A moment later, the device begins speaking the same words again, but the dwarf turns the same knob, and it stops. “What do you make of this?” he asks.==

Tahar hands the mechanical head to the PCs for them to investigate. The dwarf listens intently to anything they have to say about it, as he knows little about the inner workings of clockwork devices himself. The poem the mechanical head recites are the lines for The Amity Cycle.
Characters who succeed at a *DC 15 Society, Performance, Art Lore, or similar skill check* recognize Valls as the name of a rather famous poet who has written several popular volumes of poetry. He’s known particularly for his epic poetry about ancient Thuvia. With a critical success, a character knows that Valls lives near Lamasara and that he attended the Blossoming Sun Academy of Arts in Merab, a prestigious university with ties to the churches of Sarenrae and Shelyn.
#### THE MECHANICAL HEAD 
The PCs can learn a number of pieces of information from the head. Below are some of the skill checks the PCs might make to study the clockwork and what they can find with each. You can be generous here and allow skills that aren’t exactly the same to work if the player points out a creative application or solution.
**Arcana**: A PC who succeeds at a *DC 18 Arcana check* can determine that while the device isn’t magical, it clearly has some components that were magically crafted. The housing, for instance, seems remarkably durable. If they get a critical success, they notice there are magical symbols often associated with music etched into the device’s surface. 
**Crafting or Engineering Lore**: A PC who succeeds at a *DC 18 check* with either of these skills can tell the device is clearly clockwork. Whoever crafted it was highly skilled, their work durable yet elegant. There’s a key slot for winding the device, and a socket at the base seems designed to allow it to attach to another piece; however, it appears the head was violently removed, and many of these connections are damaged. If they get a critical success, a PC can tell there are likely other pieces of information stored within that would probably require either unique tools or perhaps a code word or phrase. Trying to gain access in other ways risks permanently damaging the clockwork. 
**Diplomacy or Society**: A PC who succeeds at a *DC 18 check* with either of these skills knows that there are numerous stories from Thuvia (and elsewhere) where sending a severed head signifies either a strong message of impending doom or grave insult. 
**Intimidation**: A PC who succeeds at a *DC 18 Intimidation check* quickly realizes there’s an implied threat being communicated here, although the message goes beyond just trying to scare someone. It also contains a taunt. The insult or threat here isn’t exactly clear, however, so whoever sent it didn’t seem to give it much forethought. 
**Performance or Poetry Lore**: A PC who succeeds at a *DC 18 check* with either of these skills notes that the words are delivered in the style of an epic poem from northern Garund. It’s obviously incomplete, but the meter and phrasing is in a traditional Thuvian style. The poet Valls is famous for his work in this type of poetry. Once the PCs are finished examining the mechanical head, read or paraphrase the following. 

==“This is all very strange,” says the dwarf. “I didn’t expect this package, and I don’t understand why Valls would send it without any other information. Perhaps he has more he yet plans to do and I’m worrying for no reason. Would you visit his home and ensure he is safe? It would do my heart a great deal of good.”== 

> [!NOTE] CLOCKWORK CLUES 
> Assuming the PCs continue to repair and consult with the mechanical head throughout the adventure, the device might start to communicate with them more clearly. It can be anything from a quirky companion, beautiful oddity, or helpful tool. Encourage the PCs to tinker with it to learn more. As the GM, you can use the mechanical head to provide hints— some cryptic, some poetic—at moments when the players are stumped.

**Treasure**: Tahar offers the PCs 80 gp as a reward for bringing any news of Valls and his whereabouts. 
If at least one of the PCs participated in the drinks and dates ceremony or smoothed over any resistance to doing so, Tahar is willing to provide the money now; otherwise, he only awards the PCs after they return with news and evidence. 
**XP Award**: If the PCs participate in roleplaying the meeting with Tahar, award them 20 XP. If they learned at least one piece of information from the mechanical head, award them 80 XP. 
#### ROLEPLAYING THE MECHANICAL HEAD 
At the start of the adventure, the mechanical head can only speak the first portion of the poem it was programmed with, but as the PCs gain more clues and tools along the way, it acts more like an NPC with its own personality and ideas. While it’s difficult to know if it’s truly sentient, when it becomes fully functional, the device can hold a rudimentary conversation, make suggestions, and speculate about the future (though it frequently makes little practical sense). To understand its personality and quirks, it helps to know why Dhia created it in the first place. 
The primary function of the clockwork servant was to serve as an orator, delivering lines of poetry from The Amity Cycle but also storing other poems, songs, plays, and famous speeches. Dhia looked at the creation of this construct as a sacred act in service of Brigh, and they’ve spent months after its initial creation tweaking and perfecting it. Whether through Dhia’s own skill, divine inspiration, or a combination of the two, a spark of intelligence and self-awareness began to grow within the construct, and it became something of a companion to the inventor. The construct’s own attempts to create original written and spoken works haven’t succeeded yet, as the mechanical head can only draw on a tiny catalogue of pre-programmed poems and stories. 
When fully functional, the device is cheerful and friendly. It speaks mostly in a pleasant—although somewhat clinical—tone, except when reciting something from its memory. When that happens, the recitations are full of emotion and sound almost like a human except for the metallic ring in its voice. If anyone who knows Valls hears the device recite these poems, they recognize the recording is based on the poet’s voice. 
The mechanical head also has no memory of its name, or if it even had one. For his part, Valls referred to it as “Assistant,” although that knowledge has been damaged, so the PCs can provide the construct with a name should they desire. Such a situation could be an interesting roleplaying opportunity for the party!
