
## Riversong Theater 
Few places in Lamasara reflect the confluence of cultures like the Riversong Theater. It stands along the river on a site sacred to the nomadic people who lived in the area prior to the rise of the Tekritanin League. Later, when ancient Osirion gained control of the region, the new rulers transformed it into a temple honoring Sobek. They built the amphitheater seating that remains to this day. After Thuvia gained its independence from Osirion and began to govern itself, the temple fell into disrepair and eventually ruin, leaving only a few pillars and building foundations. Osirionologists and others interested in ancient history occasionally visit to appreciate the old structure and see if they can glean any details of the past. Otherwise, the site has stood vacant on the shore of the Junira for a long time. 
It’s only recently that anything has been done with the location. With the increasing wealth in Lamasara due to its reputation as a city of pleasure and art, local officials decided to take advantage of the spot. They first brought in experts to clear away the rubble and shore up any dangerous structures before turning it into the center of a large public park. In the last five years, a consortium of local artists and their patrons began raising money to build a true theater intended to be the center of a new performance district. Unfortunately, much of the work has stalled due to petty squabbles and debate about how best to utilize the space. Although the theater’s used for the occasional performance, it’s only half-finished and a poor choice for larger productions, especially with so many other theaters already in Lamasara. 
When Valls, Sefalia, and Dhia decided to undertake the production of the anbarit, they thought the Riversong Theater location might be a good spot, though it wasn’t finished. The message they’d hoped to send was one of unity between the cities of Thuvia, drawing upon shared heritage and reminding the attendees that their country once threw off the dominion of Osirion. Each member of the trio used their influence to make quiet deals with local officials, even securing the assistance of city leaders to promote the performance. 
All the secrecy surrounding the new production and renovations to the Riversong Theater have been a boon to Zridi’s work, allowing her to send updated instructions to those working on the site without attracting notice. Already, the movable clockwork sets designed by Dhia have been reconfigured and the acoustics have been altered. If left alone for much longer, Zridi will be able to finish the project and undertake a performance of her deadly production. 
The creatures and hazards in place at the Riversong Theater are not just guards; Zridi stationed them here to help power The Enmity Cycle. By defeating these threats, the PCs can prevent Zridi from fully activating the corrupted ritual. 
The map for this location can be found on the back inside cover. 
### F1. THEATER GROUNDS MODERATE 6 
==A remarkable amphitheater is carved out of the limestone, oriented so an audience would face the river to the east. Three sets of stairs provide access to each row of the weathered blocks that form the seating. Three statues of winged, eagle-headed lions stand watch atop of the hill.== 
The amphitheater was built during Osirion’s reign, although it incorporates elements found throughout the Inner Sea region during that period, including Thuvian architectural themes. A player character who Investigates the amphitheater and succeeds at a *DC 22 Society, Osirion Lore, or Thuvian Lore check* estimates it was built around –1,000 AR; with a critical success they determine the site was likely designed for religious practices rather than theatrical ones, although one could argue the distinction in use of pageantry. A PC looking at the statues, even from a distance, who succeeds at a *DC 22 Society or History Lore check* notices the statues don’t fit the style or time period of the rest of the ruins. 
**Creatures**: The “statues” are, in fact, guardians Zridi brought in to keep the preparations she is making secret for as long as possible. Secrecy is difficult given the location along the river, although the lack of visitors does help. To ensure troublemakers stay away, she convinced a trio of hieracosphinxes to remain in the area and watch for trouble. She gave them each several statue skin salves (grudgingly applied regularly by Seddek) to disguise them with a stony appearance so they can blend in with the ruins, particularly during the day. 
Although they are remarkably patient for their kind, the creatures are tired of their duties and move to attack the PCs shortly after they arrive. Each one fights until reduced to 20 HP, at which point the damaged creature flees, flying across the Junira before heading south. If both its companions flee or are defeated, the final hieracosphinx flees as well. 

#### HIERACOSPHINXES (3) CREATURE 5 
Pathfinder Bestiary 3 250 Initiative Perception +14 
**Treasure**: Each hieracosphinx carries a pouch with a container of *statue skin salve* (page 61).

### F2. MAIN STAGE LOW 6 
==A wide stage area stands two feet above ground level of the amphitheater. A half-completed mosaic shows a black half circle rimmed with silver. Along the sides of the stage are a number of ancient columns, some banded with metal carved with gleaming symbols. Farther back on the stage, more decorated columns rise from the ground. Heavy black-and-silver curtains hang between several of them, barely moving in the breeze. Wooden construction scaffolding covers the farthest end of the stage. Ropes, pulleys, blocks of stone, and tools are scattered throughout the space, a sign that some very recent work has been done.==
Zridi’s work is not always subtle, and The Enmity Cycle depends on certain symbols to create the effects she is looking for. Part of this ritual involves the yet-to-be-completed symbol of Ahriman laid out in the mosaic being built into the stage. It won’t be complete until two days after the PCs learn of the theater’s location. The cultists used the existing scaffolding to set up a series of dangerous hazards that are part of the anbarit, which requires the death of several performers at key moments. The curtains are newly installed. 
A PC who Investigates the incomplete mosaic on the stage and succeeds at a *DC 21 Religion check* realizes the symbol is definitely a religious one; a critical success shows that the design looks like a half-completed religious symbol of Ahriman. A PC who Investigates the curtained columns and succeeds at a *DC 22 Religion check* realizes that the carvings on the columns are of religious symbols associated with divs. A player character who Investigates the symbols carved into the metal bands on the pillars and succeeds at a *DC 22 Occultism or Music Lore check* realizes they are associated with magic involving music. 
**Hazard**: One of the tasks Zridi forced Dhia to undertake was repurposing a number of clockwork dancers they’d built for The Amity Cycle into a dangerous threat. During the performance, they are designed to randomly harm the audience and performers alike, which helps power the ritual by creating shock and horror. The clockworks are not completely operational yet, but they can still be activated and damage unwary creatures nearby. 

#### CLOCKWORK DANCERS HAZARD 7 
UNIQUE COMPLEX MECHANICAL TRAP 
**Stealth** +16 (expert) 
**Description** Several clockwork humanoid figures armed with spinning blades move throughout the area. 
**Disable** *Thievery DC 25* (expert) to deactivate the clockworks from the control panel. Two successes are needed to deactivate the trap. 
**AC** 24; **Fort** +18, **Ref** +16, **Will** +12 **Hardness** 15; 
**HP** 58 (BT 29); **Immunities** critical hits, object immunities, precision damage; **Weaknesses** sonic 10 
**Spring Attack** `pf2:r` **Trigger** A creature ends its turn in F2; **Effect** Clockwork figures spring out from the pillars and attack anyone on the stage with a spinning blade Strike. The trap then rolls initiative. **Routine** (1 action) The clockwork dancers target each creature on the stage within 10 feet of a pillar by a spinning blade Strike. 
**Spinning Blade** `pf2:1` blade +18, Damage 2d8+9 slashing 
**Reset** The trap deactivates after 4 rounds and resets after 1 minute. 

### F3. BACKSTAGE SUPPLY ROOM MODERATE 6 
==Stacks of partially disassembled wooden crates fill this large storeroom. A portion of the south wall is crumbled, and the debris is stacked in the collapse five feet high. There are two doorframes in the east walls and one in the north.==
Both construction and ritual supplies are housed here, although the workers tend to avoid the room due to its resident. A player character who Investigates the contents of the crates and succeeds at a *DC 20 Engineering Lore* realizes the clockwork equipment matches Dhia’s designs. This area, as well as areas F4–F7, are the only structures here with a ceiling, which stands high above at nearly 20 feet. Creature: Zridi spent a long time in Lamasara causing horrific nightmares among its residents, even before she hatched her plan to create The Enmity Cycle. The nightmares of creative minds—of which there are many in the city—are fertile ground for fear, and the residual energy of the most powerful night terrors became an animate dream that serves Zridi without question. When not out fulfilling its master’s whims, the incorporeal being dwells here, ordered to attack anyone not here on Zridi’s orders. This has led to at least one worker’s death, but Zridi was not overly troubled by this incident. The animate dream fights to the death. 

#### ZRIDI’S NIGHTMARE CREATURE 8 
Animate dream (Pathfinder Bestiary 2 18) 
Initiative Stealth +18 
**Treasure**: A player character who Searches the area finds clockwork gears and other tools and equipment worth 60 gp. 

### F4. WORKSHOP MODERATE 6 
==Workbenches covered in tools and mechanical parts stand in the northern part of this room, and the smell of oil is strong here. Several half-completed mechanical, humanoid-shaped creations hang from the ceiling on pulleys throughout the room. The eastern wall contains a door and an empty doorframe, as well as a partially collapsed section of wall. An opening in the southern wall also provides an exit.== 
This room served as cells for the acolytes and priests who lived here long ago, but the only hints of its former use are places on the walls where thin wooden room dividers were once attached. A player character who Searches the area locates places where a series of interior walls were once attached to form small rooms. If a PC succeeds at a *DC 20 Perception check*, they locate modified designs for clockwork soldiers tucked under a large cog to hold them in place. Player characters who Investigate can tell the clockworks have been weaponized instead of just being a beautiful and complex part of a performance. PCs who have been to Dhia’s workshop and who succeed at a *DC 20 Perception or Crafting check* recognize that the work is based on Dhia’s designs. 
**Creatures**: The alterations on the clockwork soldiers are incomplete, but they’re clearly being redesigned to carry out the new, corrupted anbarit. Three of them are programmed to attack anyone who doesn’t possess the correct password (which Zridi changes frequently). They begin stirring whenever a creature enters the room. 
If any of the PCs have the mechanical assistant (or its head) with them, read or paraphrase the following. 
==A crackling sound bursts from Dhia’s mechanical assistant and fills the room. The other clockwork creatures pause and cock their heads as if listening intently. The assistant says, “I have temporarily interrupted any orders given to these clockworks after their activation. This should provide you an opportunity to interact with them. Perhaps you can convince them to stand down—or maybe even help? I anticipate you have only a minute before they initiate their presumably hostile programming.”==
If they choose to take this opportunity, each PC has one chance to attempt a *DC 22 Crafting, Diplomacy, or Engineering Lore check* to influence the clockwork soldiers before they resume their duties. You should allow clever or creative uses of other skills to involve all the player characters, if possible. Each success gains the party *1 Reprogramming Point*, and each critical success gains them 2 Reprogramming Points. A failure earns no points, and each critical failure subtracts 1 point from the total. If the player characters reach a total of *3 points*, the clockwork soldiers stand down and do not attack. If the player characters reach a total of *6 points*, the clockwork soldiers assist the PCs in their next encounter before returning to the room. If the player characters accumulate fewer than 3 points, however, the clockwork soldiers use their first action in combat to drop from their hooks and to the ground. They then move to attack and fight until destroyed. 

#### WEAK CLOCKWORK SOLDIERS (3) CREATURE 5 
Pathfinder Bestiary 3 6, 49 
Initiative Perception +14 

### F5. DRESSING ROOM LOW 6
==This room contains racks of costumes for a variety of characters, from commoners to nobles to fanciful creatures. The tables in the room hold jars of pigment, powders, and assorted brushes. Two large mirrors hang on the north and south walls. A door near the mirror on the north wall leads to the scene shop, and a doorframe near the middle of the western wall opens to the backstage supply room.== 
Performers use this room to prepare, though it’s largely empty of late given how rare shows are at the Riversong while it’s under renovation. A player character who Investigates the room and succeeds at a *DC 20 Society or Theater Lore check* can tell the costumes, makeup, and mirrors are new. A player character who Investigates the costumes and succeeds at a *DC 21 Religion check* finds several sets of old vestments that are black with silver highlights. If they get a critical success, they can put together that these are almost certainly the vestments that one of Ahriman’s faithful would wear for a ritual or service back when this was a temple instead of a theater. 
**Creatures**: Although it has not been used frequently, there have been a few productions at the Riversong Theater in the last few years, and the site has a handful of devoted enthusiasts. Two of these enthusiasts, a married couple named Samir and Amina, were both actors who not only took part in a number of performances at the Riversong, but were also loud and frequent advocates for its renovation. 
It was easy enough for Zridi to convince the pair that they would be perfect for the new production she was putting together, but when they read their parts Samir and Amina objected strenuously to its message. The offended pairaka became enraged at their audacity to insult to her gracious invitation to take part in the performance. A yelling match ensued, and Zridi revealed her true form to the actors, murdered them, and had Seddek dispose of their bodies in the desert. 
Such was their emotional connection to the theater that an echo of their spirits manifested as muse phantoms, although the violent nature of their deaths twisted their love into obsession. When Zridi discovered the creatures, she immediately found a way to work them into The Enmity Cycle. They still serve a central role in the production, even in death. 
During combat, one phantom uses a comedic aura while the other uses a dramatic aura. On their first turn they each attempt to possess a foe and turn it against its allies, praising the other phantom’s performance the entire time. They fight until destroyed. 

#### SAMIR AND AMINA CREATURE 5 
UNCOMMON CE MEDIUM INCORPOREAL SPIRIT UNDEAD 
Muse **phantoms** (Pathfinder Adventure Path #152: Legacy of the Lost God 81) 
**Perception** +10; darkvision 
**Languages** Common, Necril 
**Skills** Deception +14, Diplomacy +14, Occultism +13, Performance +16, Theater Lore +11 
**Str** –5, **Dex** +4, **Con** +2, **Int** +0, **Wis** +3, **Cha** +5 
**Thespian Aura** (aura, emotion, mental, occult) 30 feet. The muse phantom inspires a supernaturally extreme emotional response—either with biting comedy or bitter drama. Each creature that begins its turn in the aura must attempt a *DC 20 Will save*; on a failure, the creature is affected as long as it remains within the aura. If the muse phantom is emitting a comedic aura, affected creatures become clumsy 1; if it is emitting a dramatic aura, affected creatures instead become stupefied 1. The muse phantom can change its aura from comedic to dramatic or vice versa, or cease or activate this aura, by spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait. A creature possessed by a muse phantom is immune to this aura. 
**AC** 21; Fort +9, Ref +13, Will +14 
**HP** 50, negative healing; Immunities death effects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious; Resistances all damage 5 (except force, ghost touch, or positive; double resistance vs. non-magical) **Speed** fly 25 feet 
**Melee** `pf2:1` phantom hand +13 (agile, finesse, magical), Damage 2d6+5 negative 
**Ranged** `pf2:1` resonating note +15 (magical, range 60 feet, sonic), Damage 2d4+5 sonic Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 22, attack +14; 2nd hideous laughter, invisibility (at will; self only); 1st charm, fear, mindlink; Cantrips (2nd) ghost sound, telekinetic projectile 
**Grand Finale** `pf2:3` (mental, occult) Requirements The muse phantom’s thespian aura is active; Effect The muse ceases its thespian aura and deals 4d8 mental damage to creatures in a 30-foot burst, including the creature it is possessing, if any (DC 22 basic Will save). Creatures that fail their Will saves are fascinated by the muse phantom for 1 minute. The muse phantom can’t use Grand Finale again for 1d4 rounds. 
**Muse Possession** `pf2:2` The phantom muse attempts to possess an adjacent corporeal creature. This has the same effect as the possession spell (DC 20), except the duration is 1d4 hours, and since the phantom muse doesn’t have a physical body, it is unaffected by that restriction of the spell. If the target is at least trained in Performance, the DC of this ability is 24. 48 
### F6. SCENE SHOP MODERATE 6
==Numerous canvas murals hang from the ceiling here. Their bunched and folded fabric gives the scenes painted on them a twisted, strange appearance. In addition, several tall sheets of metal that have been shaped and painted to represent the sun and moon are propped in a corner out of the way. Workbenches line the eastern wall. A crumbled passage to the west is partially blocked by rubble. Doors to the north and south exit to other backstage rooms.== 
Zridi’s cast and crew have been using this room as a scene shop to prepare the setting of the anbarit. A player character who Searches realizes that each canvas depicts a scene of a city or town, and that all of them have been defaced in some way—some ripped, others crudely painted over in a mockery of the original image. A player character who Investigates the images and succeeds at a *DC 18 Society or Thuvia Lore check* recognizes the cities in the images as those of the five cities of Thuvia: Lamasara, Merab, Aspenthar, Pashow, and Duwwor. On a critical success, they note the images are each slightly skewed to make subtle insults to all the cities besides Lamasara. Merab is full of gilded, ostentatious buildings; Aspenthar’s soldiers look ragged and underfed; Pashow’s buildings are half-buried in sand; and Duwwor’s gardeners pour ridiculous amounts of water on their plants. 
**Creatures**: After taking control of the theater, Zridi sent a call into the desert for aid. Several of her kindred answered, drawn by the promise of being able to personally mar and desecrate the beauty the artists and others in Lamasara had built. They’re in charge of guarding the cast Zridi captured and held here, and have each taken turns mentally and physically harming them. They attack immediately and fight to the death. 
Four performers are chained to the corners of the room. Their bodies have been bruised and their features marred by the ministrations of the aghashes. They are malnourished, dehydrated, and barely conscious, but can recover if given food and water. A character making a successful *DC 20 Medicine check* can treat them in 3 hours (or 1 hour on a critical success). Once able to speak coherently, they describe being hired for a secret project by a charming woman named Zridi who told them to meet her at the Riversong Theater. When they arrived, they were ambushed and imprisoned by the divs. Since then, they have been tortured and forced to memorize hateful lines for some nebulous performance. If you need statistics for the captive performers, use statistics for acrobats on page 236 of the Gamemastery Guide. 
#### AGHASH DIVS (4) CREATURE 4 
Pathfinder Bestiary 3 69 
Initiative Perception +12 

### F7. DIRECTOR’S ROOM SEVERE OR EXTREME 6 
==A large wooden desk stands in front of the northern wall, papers scattered atop it. Behind the desk are shelves filled with books. Numerous scribbled drawings are tacked haphazardly onto the walls. There are doors to the south and west.== 
If the PCs make it this far and Zridi sees her plan crumbling to ruin, she attempts a desperate last-minute performance of the anbarit as it currently stands, with the PCs as unwitting contributors. If the PCs defeated at least three out of four previous encounters backstage (the animate dream, the muse phantoms, the aghash divs, and the clockwork soldiers), the corrupt anbarit cannot take effect enough to coalesce into a hazard, although if Zridi is not completely stopped in this encounter, the anbarit can still cause some psychic damage to the people of the city. 
**Creatures**: Zridi is an old div—so old even she doesn’t quite know how long she’s been on Golarion. She has a dim recollection of being a servant in the House of Oblivion when Ahriman was present there, so she has been active for several thousand years at least. But being so deeply tied to the forces of oblivion and nothingness means not even her own mind can hold onto the thoughts and memories forever. All she knows for certain is that she has been chosen by her lord for a great purpose: breaking Thuvia and encouraging the ruin that must follow. 
She’s always had an eye for arts of all kinds, something for which she was mocked by her fellow divs. In recent years, Zridi focused her attention on the mortals who spent so much of their time creating make-believe slices of life. She sees their efforts to make sense out of life as laughable and their work to generate any new meaning as pointless. More than anything, she hates the connection to others that great art can encourage. 
The pairaka spent years worming her way into the confidences of local poets, playwrights, and inventors. She used her considerable wealth to become a patron of the arts and sees herself as an important figure in those circles here. Zridi maintains several residences and safe houses around Lamasara, but never meets artists in them, preferring instead to assume a disguise and conduct her business in public. With her influence came the ability to choose artists she felt were likely to be the most influential and important and then subtly erode their minds until they gave up on their passion entirely or self-sabotaged in some way. In the fast-moving art scene of Lamasara, no one noticed a pattern of burnout and despair that followed those who worked for the wealthy patron Zridi. 
After learning Valls intended to pause work on the third volume of From League to Legends, a vast collection of epic poems bringing to life Thuvia’s long and complex history, so he could complete another more important project, the pairaka headed to the desert to meditate on how best to make him pay for depriving her of the stories she so longed to hear. As she had hoped, while on her simmering sojourn she experienced several visions in the twisted dreamscapes she traveled—messages that convinced her she had been chosen specifically by Ahriman to undertake truly important work. She would destroy Valls, his secret collaborators, and Thuvia while she was at it. 
That Valls, Sefalia, and Dhia are in love and have a strong relationship was a delightful bonus for Zridi. She planned to take her time destroying those bonds and savor every tear and heartache. The ritual for what would become The Enmity Cycle began to form in her mind, and she returned from the desert with devious orders for her network of Usij cultists. 
Zridi spends most of her time in the form of a middle-aged Garundi woman dressed in the latest Thuvian fashion. If accused directly by the PCs of being a div in private, she drops the masquerade and resumes her natural form as a fiendish, blue-skinned pairaka. In public, she keeps up her disguise and attempts to talk her way out of trouble by drawing upon her many connections in the city and her reputation as an honest merchant and sponsor of the arts. If her questioners get aggressive, she plays the victim and calls for help from any nearby citizen who would help a woman of means. A typical crowd listening to such a plea assumes an unfriendly, if not hostile, attitude toward the PCs. 
If confronted anywhere besides the director’s room (F7), Zridi attempts to flee to this place as soon as she can. If she is confronted in F7, she realizes her plans have gone terribly awry and triggers her backup plan—making the PCs unwitting participants in her foul ritual. She heads to F2 and begins the process. 

#### ZRIDI CREATURE 8 
UNIQUE LE MEDIUM DIV FIEND 
Female **pairaka** (Pathfinder Bestiary 3 70) 
**Perception** +16; greater darkvision 
**Languages** Daemonic, Osiriani; telepathy 100 feet 
**Skills** Acrobatics +15, Arcana +14, Deception +21, Diplomacy +21, Intimidation +17, Religion +14, Society +14, Stealth +17 
**Str** +3, **Dex** +5, **Con** +3, **Int** +3, **Wis** +4, **Cha** +7 
**Items** horn of fog 
**AC** 26; **Fort** +13, **Ref** +17, **Will** +18; +1 status to all saves vs. magic 
**HP** 125; **Immunities** disease; **Weaknesses** cold iron 6, good 6 
**Hatred of Red** Pairakas hate the color red. Zridi won’t wear the color or willingly enter any place painted red. Given a choice, she’ll attack a creature wearing red first. If barred from expressing her displeasure toward the color by force or some magical effect, she takes *2d6 mental* damage at the end of her turn. 
**Speed** 25 feet, fly 35 feet 
**Melee** `pf2:1` claw +18 (agile, evil, finesse, magical), Damage 2d8+7 slashing plus 1d6 evil and bubonic plague 
**Divine Innate Spells** DC 26; 4th charm (at will), dimension door (at will), misdirection (at will; self only), outcast’s curse (at will), suggestion (at will); Cantrips (4th) detect magic 
**Rituals** DC 26; 1st div pact 
**Bubonic Plague** (disease) A creature can’t remove the fatigued condition while infected; **Saving Throw** *DC 24* Fortitude; **Onset** 1 day; 
Stage 1 fatigued (1 day); Stage 2 enfeebled 2 and fatigued (1 day); Stage 3 enfeebled 3, fatigued, and take 1d6 persistent bleed damage every 1d20 minutes (1 day) 
**Change Shape** `pf2:1` (divine, concentrate, polymorph, transmutation) Zridi can take the appearance of any Small or Medium humanoid or animal. This doesn’t change her Speed or her attack and damage modifiers with the Strikes, but it might change the damage type her Strikes deal. 
**Compelled Performance** `pf2:2` (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) **Frequency** once per day; **Effect** Zridi grants the target a *+2 status bonus to Performance checks* for one week. The target must attempt a *DC 26* Will save. 
**Critical Success** No further effect. 
**Success** The target must Perform for 1 action on its next turn. 
**Failure** The target must Perform for 3 actions on its next turn, undertaking a Performance task set by Zridi. 
**Critical Failure** As failure, but Zridi can choose to delay the effect and trigger it at any point in the next week as a reaction. 
**Tormenting Dreams** `pf2:2` (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) Frequency once per day; Effect Zridi torments a sleeping creature within 100 feet with visions of betrayals by loved ones and friends. The target must attempt a DC 26 Will save, with the effects of the nightmare spell. 
#### ELITE USIJ CULTISTS (2) CREATURE 4 
UNCOMMON NE MEDIUM HUMAN HUMANOID 
**Perception** +11 
**Languages** Common, Osiriani 
**Skills** Athletics +12, Disguise +11, Intimidation +11, Religion +7, Stealth +11 
**Str** +4, **Dex** +2, **Con** +3, **Int** +2, **Wis** +3, **Cha** +3 
**Items** leather armor, religious symbol of Ahriman, scimitar, whip 
**AC** 20; **Fort** +14, **Ref** +9, **Will** +10
**HP** 65 
**Tripping Whip** `pf2:r` **Requirements** The Usij cultist must have a whip in their hands; **Trigger** A creature moves out of a threatened square; **Effect** The Usij cultist makes a *Trip* attempt against the triggering creature with their whip. 
**Speed** 25 feet 
**Melee** `pf2:1` scimitar +13, Damage 1d6+8 slashing 
**Melee** `pf2:1` whip +13 (disarm, finesse, nonlethal, reach 10 feet, trip), Damage 1d4+8 slashing

### Activating the Corrupt Anbarit 
Fortunately for the PCs, The Enmity Cycle is not yet fully complete and requires a set of conditions in order for it to properly activate. At least two of the following enemies must still be active: the clockwork dancers hazard in area F2; the animate dream in area F3; the weak clockwork soldiers in area F4; Samir and Amina in area F5; or the aghash divs in area F6. If at least two of those encounters have not yet been defeated, Zridi can activate the incomplete corrupted anbarit by using 2 actions to trigger it from anywhere in area F2. Doing so drains the energy from any creatures or hazards in that area, reducing them to sand and destroying them. 
In addition, any PC who critically fails their saving throw against Zridi’s Compelled Performance ability counts as an undefeated encounter as far as being able to trigger the incomplete corrupted anbarit is concerned. Player characters who fall victim to this ability aren’t drained of energy and destroyed as the creatures and hazards in the encounters are. In this way that the corrupt anbarit can form even if enough encounters are defeated. If Zridi activates the incomplete Enmity Cycle, read or paraphrase the following. 
==A soft drumming fills the stage, as insistent and driving as the desert sands. The sounds of reed instruments buzz from somewhere in the distance, their high, keening notes jarring and out of tune. ==
If the clockwork traps are still active, add the following. 
==The air thrums with the sound of metal shrieking and snapping. The noise rises like a scream of agony, consumed with the ringing of metal and grinding gears full of sand. An acrid, burning smell crosses the stage.==
If the animate dream is still active, add the following. 
==A dark shape formed of mist coalesces and flits around the stage. A whispering rasp begins to claw at the ears of those nearby, filling them with formless fear. ==
If the weak clockwork soldiers are still active, add the following. 
==Dancers take shape on the stage, moving in perfect synchronicity. Their motions are graceful but somehow manage to avoid being beautiful. Instead, the dance is cold and stale, as if repeated without any passion or enthusiasm.==
If both Samir and Amina are still active, add the following. 
==Cold, mocking laughter echoes from the back wall of the theater while a second, deeper voice incites dread with terrible words.==
If the aghashes are still active, add the following. 
==Four actors step onto the stage. One wears a military uniform, another wears blue robes, the third sports a simple linen shift, and the last is resplendent in fashionable silks. Their faces are horribly disfigured as if they had been savaged by claws. ==
This hastily activated and half-finished ritual is far less destructive than what Zridi had originally hoped to achieve, but she’s determined to enact what vengeance she can. Even incomplete, the performance could still kill many and ultimately release a discordant wave throughout all of Lamasara. If it’s not stopped, those who survive it will be filled with hate in their hearts, becoming a contagious well of distrust and xenophobia that will spread throughout Thuvia and across the Inner Sea. 

#### THE ENMITY CYCLE HAZARD 6 
RARE COMPLEX CURSE MAGICAL TRAP 
**Stealth** +16 (expert) or detect magic 
**Description** Discordant music, dance, and poetry combine to build a deep suspicion and distrust of strangers. 
**Disable** *Performance DC 26* to counteract the performance or *Religion or Occult DC 27* to disrupt the spiritual energy. Three total successes are needed to disable the trap. 
**Discordant Performance** `pf2:r` (emotion, mental, occult) **Trigger** Zridi spends an action to activate The Enmity Cycle while in area F2; **Effect** All creatures other than Zridi in F2 take 2d8+9 mental damage (*DC 25 basic Will save*). The trap then rolls initiative. 
**Routine** (1 action) The performance continues to sow seeds of enmity, discord, and distrust on those in its area. All creatures in attendance other than Zridi must attempt a *DC 25 Will save*. 
**Critical Success** The target is unaffected and is immune to the effects for 1 day. 
**Success** The target is frightened 1 for 2 rounds. 
**Failure** The target is frightened 2 for 1 minute and is certain the source of this fear is their fellow citizens, especially those from places other than their hometown. For 1 week the target suffers a *–2 penalty to all Diplomacy skill checks* against people from other Thuvian cities and regains the frightened 2 condition whenever they are in one of those cities. 
**Critical Failure** As failure, but the target becomes a carrier for The Enmity Cycle for the next week. The target is compelled to travel to a city other than where they were exposed and recite as many lines from the anbarit as they can recall. Those who hear or witness the performance are treated as if they had attended a performance of The Enmity Cycle, but the *Will save DC is 23*. 
**Reset** A new production of The Enmity Cycle must be arranged; this process usually takes at least 1 week. 

## Concluding the Adventure 
If Zridi is killed or driven off and the corrupt anbarit is stopped, the PCs have successfully ended the threat to Lamasara and saved the relationships between the five cities. Word quickly spreads that something dramatic happened at the Riversong Theater, and Valls, Sefalia, and Dhia take advantage of that interest to advertise their upcoming anbarit. After the three recover and complete (or repair) their work, crowds surge to attend the opening performance that takes place within a few weeks. The artists gratefully acknowledge the player characters at the beginning of the show. The Amity Cycle is an immediate hit, and the performance schedule is extended through the following season. With a little bit of diplomacy (perhaps involving the PCs), the other four cities each agree to host a production of the show, and the bond between the cities grows stronger. The PCs have an opportunity to build their own reputations and find several employers looking to hire a group of up-and-coming adventurers. 
Perhaps some members of the party are disturbed or intrigued upon discovering the ease in which a div could infiltrate regular society, or the role the Usij truly play in the world. If you want to extend the themes of this adventure into a longer campaign, the PCs could look into Zridi’s other contacts in the city and uncover corruption in high places, or find that secret Usij cultists are working within the system to enact even more nefarious plans. Maybe these investigations could lead them out into the desert to infiltrate the House of Oblivion. 
If Zridi is not killed but the corrupt anbarit is stopped, she retreats to the desert and makes a pilgrimage to the House of Oblivion to consider her next steps. She is likely to return to trouble the PCs later, probably with even more dangerous allies as well as a new, insidious plan to erode the bonds between the cities. This takes time, however, so the PCs have a respite from her machinations. 
In the worst-case scenario, Zridi is not defeated, the corrupt anbarit is completed, and many Lamasarans are infected by the show. The virulent nature of the performance means its influence begins to take hold in each of the cities of Thuvia, leading to increased distrust and arguments over the long-standing arrangement of sharing the sun orchid elixir’s sale. While it’s unlikely to cause a complete disintegration of Thuvia’s inner politics, it certainly causes strife and creates more opportunities for Zridi or other divs to further damage the country. The ripple effect of this turmoil is soon felt throughout the Inner Sea. There will certainly be room for heroes to step in and offer their services.