### FINDING THE THEATER 
Before they can move against Zridi, the PCs need to find where she’s hiding out. If Seddek was not killed during his encounter with the PCs, he eventually makes his way back to the Riversong Theater, which the PCs may have already located during earlier exploration. If they didn’t follow Seddek right away, they can ask around about the janni. A PC who does this and succeeds at a *DC 22 check to Gather Information* can follow his trail this way and arrive in 3 hours; a critical success reduces this time to 1 hour. 
As the PCs look for clues about where Zridi might be hiding, they’re likely to uncover a few valuable stories and rumors. A character who asks about Zridi or unusual news in Lamasara and succeeds at a *DC 21 check to Gather Information* learns one of the following clues; a critical success means the character learns two clues. 
• “Something odd did happen at the last council meeting, or I should probably say didn’t happen. Samir and Amina, a married couple who are both actors, have been coming to every meeting for the last fifteen years. And what do they want, you might ask? To plead their case for the completion of the renovations to the old Riversong Theater. It might be historical, but if you ask me it’s not worth the trouble when there are so many theaters already in the city. It was strange they didn’t show up, though. I hope they’re okay.” 
• “Sure, I’ve heard of Zridi. She’s a well-known patron of the arts here in the city. I was hoping to meet her sometime and pitch my idea for a new production I’ve been planning. I don’t suppose you know how to get in touch with her, do you?” 
• “I noticed something strange when I was on a riverboat the other night. I’ve been up and down the Junira more times than I can count, but this time when I was passing the Riversong Theater, it had some new statues. They caught my eye because they’re pretty big. Looked like maybe they were statues of griffons? I know they’ve been renovating, but it seems like an odd choice.” 
• “I had an encounter with that Zridi once. I was selling scarves in the market: really beautiful Osiriani work, you know. Well, this middle-aged Garundi woman comes to the stall wearing a fashionable white and silver outfit. Very sharp. She began looking at my wares, and I pulled a beautiful crimson scarf from behind me and held it out for her. She looked at me like I had shoved a viper in her face, screamed obscenities at me, and stormed off. I was dumbfounded. Later I learned her name was Zridi and she’s some kind of merchant and patron of many artists.” 
• “Yes, I sent a whole order of materials for costumes and makeup to the Riversong Theater. Nothing unusual there, but I didn’t know anyone was using the place. They’re still doing lots of work on the site.” The PCs could also choose to simply visit every theater in Lamasara to try to find her. Doing so takes *1d4+1 days*, as few people even think about the Riversong Theater as a place where productions are currently held. If the PCs are having a particularly difficult time locating the theater, consider sending the animate dream after them. Instead of fighting until destroyed, the creature could flee and lead the PCs to the location. 
**XP Award**: If the PCs learn about the Riversong Theater through their own investigation, award them 60 XP.