*After* dealing with the cultists and recovering the information found in the Temple of the Scorching Sun, the PCs can safely return to Lamasara unless they’ve made an enemy of Water Lord Almeth. If he’s hostile toward the PCs, he sends more bandits to harass them along the way back to Lamasara, although these bandits retreat if any of their number are slain. After that, they won’t bother the PCs unless they return to Almeth’s territory. 
Re-entering Lamasara is simple enough. The guards at the city gates are mostly there to keep traffic moving, and many travelers enter the city by boat on the Junira. The main thoroughfares are crowded with performers putting on small shows, musicians trying out new compositions, and a small army of municipal workers tending plants, painting buildings, and cleaning trash. 
Once in the city, the PCs have several things they can do to track down the missing poet as well as other options. What follows are their most likely courses of actions, although pursuing other endeavors can fill their time as well. If the PCs become stuck, tinkering with the mechanical head can also provide limited suggestions. 
## Returning to Tahar 
With additional evidence in hand of what happened to Valls, the PCs might decide to report their findings to Tahar and earn the promised reward. The dwarf is startled by the news of the kidnapping and perplexed about who could be behind such an act. As far as he knows, the poet has no enemies, and abducting such a high-profile person is remarkably brazen. After he provides the reward, read or paraphrase the following. 
==“You’ve already done much to help me find Valls—more than I could have expected. But since he’s still missing, I was hoping you’d be willing to continue looking for him. I worry that involving any city officials will bring the matter undue attention and put my friend at risk. Law enforcement around here is more used to dealing with vandalism and theft than more serious crimes. And if this is about more than just Valls, well, official involvement might do more harm than good. You, on the other hand, have already proven your skill for this kind of work. And I’ll be happy to reward you handsomely for bringing him back safely.”==
Whether or not they agree, Tahar can help narrow down the search for the poet and the tinkerer. If the PCs ask about tinkerers in Lamasara, the dwarf explains there are a number of people who fit that description and that a section in the southern end of the city near the river has a lot of workshops. If they provide the detail about the windmill on the rooftop, Tahar says he does remember seeing such a place in that same neighborhood. He doesn’t remember precisely where but is sure the locals will know, or the PCs might just be able to walk the streets until they spot it. **Reward**: If the PCs rescue Valls, Tahar pays them 200 gp. 
## Finding a Place to Stay 
If the PCs ask Tahar about a place to stay while in the city, he happily offers spare rooms in his own house free of charge to thank them for their efforts and help them with their search. If they decline, there are many inns in Lamasara offering a wide variety of accommodations for travelers. Tahar, for whom money is no issue, suggests Aziza’s, although even he recognizes that it’s a bit pricey, if worth the cost. One happy bit of news for the PCs is that room prices everywhere are lower than usual since there’s space for far more visitors than the city currently has (prices are 80% of what’s listed on page 294 of the *Pathfinder Core Rulebook*). The following options are examples of what’s available. 
**Aziza’s**: This three-story restaurant and hotel is one of the higher-end establishments in the city. Owned by the famous chef **Aziza Khalizha** (LN female half-elf chef), the place caters to those who want the best dining, lodging, and entertainment in Lamasara. Aziza’s food is a fusion of traditional Thuvian and Galtan ingredients and techniques. The place is especially popular with visitors from the Inner Sea region. The attached hotel is renowned for its relaxing, cool courtyards and spring-fed pools. For those seeking luxury and a chance to mingle with the wealthy, this place is one of the best spots in town. 
**The Dancing Gnoll**: As a business that caters to a rougher crowd, the furnishings of this inn are sturdier than most others but still elegant compared to similarly-priced establishments in other cities. The inn is owned and operated by **Wajdi** (N male halfling hosteler), a former adventurer who spent much of his time guarding riverboats up and down the Junira until a severe leg injury made it impossible for him to continue. He’s friendly yet guarded with customers, although he’s happy to share stories over a drink when he isn’t busy. The inn has a dining room and bar in the front and two dozen rooms for rent farther back. 
**The Harbor**: Unsurprisingly located near the river on the eastern end of the city, this hotel hosts an annual contest for local artists to decorate and repaint it. The contest is timed so that new designs can be shown off in just 3 weeks, meaning that it’s currently being redecorated. Scaffolding and large sheets of fabric keep casual passersby from seeing the new look until it’s revealed. The Harbor is owned by a small group of investors and managed by **Aliya Torain** (NG female human merchant), who always looks out for her customers. 
## Locating the Tinkerer’s Workshop 
Ultimately, the PCs must locate Dhia’s house to continue the search for Valls. Simply asking around Lamasara about a tinkerer’s house, however, turns up numerous frustrating leads. There are many tinkerers and inventors in Lamasara, and most are quite private. Nevertheless, PCs can ask around, then either visit the houses or listen for any strange rumors about them. Without information about the rooftop windmill, the general neighborhood, or the tinkerer’s name, *Gather Information* checks to find Dhia’s house are *DC 22* and take 8 hours to complete. If the characters know the tinkerer’s name or about the windmill, the DC is lowered by 2 and finding the home takes only 2 hours. With a successful check, they learn the location of a shop that a tinkerer named Dhia recently moved into. Residents report that the tinkerer had been actively purchasing supplies and getting to know their neighbors when they first settled in. Recently, no one has seen the tinkerer or their assistants for several days, although people have heard strange noises and giggling from the shop. A critical success halves the amount of time this search takes. 
**XP Award**: Once the PCs locate Dhia’s shop, award them *120 XP*. 
## Mechanical Head Clues 
Characters might also decide to closely examine the mechanical head for clues about who made it. A PC can do this, or the characters can take the device to one of the tinkerer shops in the market. For a cost of 6 sp, one of the engineers there can perform the inspection for them. (All of these engineers and inventors marvel over the device.) A character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Engineering or DC 21 Perception check* spots a maker’s mark within the metal casing of the head that reads “Dhia of Duwwor.” If the PCs decide this means they need to head straight to Duwwor—and you can’t dissuade them—the mechanical head can chime in and suggest that a more reasonable approach might be to ask around Lamasara before making such a long journey through the desert. 
If the PCs haven’t thought to inspect the head for signs of who crafted it for 5 days or more, the head has had enough time to self-repair some of its stored information. In that case, read or paraphrase the following. 
==“Oh!” the mechanical head exclaims. “That is interesting. It seems one of my internal memory systems has reconnected on its own. I believe I was crafted by someone named Dhia as a gift for the poet Valls. Yes, that is correct. They planned to work on some kind of project together and I was to be both an assistant and perhaps,” the head pauses, “part of the performance. How odd. I don’t believe I’m programmed to perform on stage—in front of people!”==
## The Tinkerer’s Workshop 
Dhia saved up the money to move to Lamasara by building beautiful and useful contraptions in their home city of Duwwor. They came to Lamasara to collaborate more easily on the anbarit with Valls and Sefalia, but Dhia also wants to get on board with the new technical school that Lord Yamthar of Absalom is building in the city. It would be a dream of theirs to work with so many like-minded crafters and engineers—or maybe even teach. 
Dhia’s building serves as both home and workshop. They like the ability to rush to the workbench and start creating whenever a new idea pops up. From the outside, the building looks a bit simpler than others of a similar age in Lamasara. Instead of the curves, pillars, and archways so common here, Dhia’s workshop is more practical. The exceptions are the walls to the east and west, which have gentle curves. There are plenty of windows, although the ones in the work area are 15 feet off the ground to keep out prying eyes. Instead of glass, they’re lined with steel bars to deter intruders. The building is stone, and a clever ventilation system that draws air from beneath the ground keeps it considerably cooler than the high temperature outside. The most distinct feature of the workshop is a large windmill mounted to the roof. Attached to a series of pulleys, ropes, belts, and chains, this windmill provides much of the power Dhia uses to complete their projects. 
Dhia only recently moved to Lamasara from Duwwor, all to produce the clockwork performers necessary for The Amity Cycle. A lot of the work space is filled with half-packed crates and boxes; Dhia hasn’t yet had time to organize materials as neatly as they would’ve like to. Now, however, the containers have been raided for spare parts by gremlins, and their contents lie scattered about. 
After learning about the project the trio had been planning, Zridi decided to not only capture Dhia, but ruin their life’s work, seeing the tinkerer as a threat to getting what she wanted. Through her extensive contacts, she knew of several bands of gremlins who were always eager to cause trouble for Lamasara’s local inventors. With so many shops and labs to choose from, however, these gremlins usually weren’t too difficult to fend off. After a few days of searching, Zridi met with a particularly clever jinkin gremlin named Noolik and, with her help, put together a team of jinkin and nuglub gremlins. Zridi promised the gremlins free reign of the facility if they helped her get inside so she could abduct the inventor. Aware of most gremlins’ inability to follow through on complex plans, she personally accompanied them. Posing as a merchant delivering a load of metal parts in a large wagon, Zridi simply drove inside with a load of gremlins, who immediately caused enough of a distraction for Zridi to capture Dhia. 
Once she had captured the tinkerer, Zridi had the gremlins load up all the clockwork creatures into her wagon along with Dhia. She then took the tinkerer to the composer’s house (where they still are currently) and had several Usij cultists deliver all but one of the clockworks to the Riversong Theater; the other she sent to the riverboat where Valls was briefly held after his capture in the desert. Once she had Dhia imprisoned in the composer’s house, Zridi set the tinkerer to work altering their clockwork creations to become part of The Enmity Cycle as its primary performers. The clockwork whom the PCs know as the mechanical head was assisting Valls with his work until Zridi lost her temper, ripped off the clockwork’s head, and sent it to Tahar. 
Since the kidnapping, the gremlins have been quite productive in their new “home.” The jinkins love the high-quality tools Dhia keeps in their shop, and these tools, combined with the ample parts on hand, have helped the gremlins turn the main work area into a terrifying deathtrap. They’re eager for the inevitable investigation into the tinkerer’s disappearance and can’t wait to show off their work to whomever walks through the door. The map for Dhia’s workshop appears on page 22. 

> [!NOTE] MYSTERIOUS POSTERS
> After the PCs return to Lamasara, they might start to notice mysterious posters tacked on the walls throughout the city. As the PCs explore Lamasara during this chapter and the next, a character who Investigates and succeeds at a *DC 20 Perception check* notices a strange red poster with five black lines forming a pentagon above the word “Amity.” If the PCs ask around to see what citizens know of it, there’s remarkably little information available, although some residents think it must be kind of advertising stunt for a new shop, performance, or art opening. 

### C1. ENTRYWAY TRIVIAL 5 
==The temperature drops considerably from the front door into this wide hallway. The area is undecorated and sparse, save for two impressive woolen rugs embroidered with beautiful geometric patterns. ==

The air circulation system in the workshop, combined with ceramic tiles, helps keep the temperature here quite cool. The current inhabitants hope this comfortable feeling will make visitors less cautious. **Hazard**: While not as excited about the mechanical wonders of the workshop, the nuglubs that Zridi brought have constructed a rather dangerous trap to weaken anyone who enters the hallway. They come to investigate from area C2 if they hear the trap being triggered. 

#### ENTANGLING SHREDDER TRAP HAZARD 6 
SIMPLE MECHANICAL TRAP 
**Stealth** *DC 25* (expert) to notice the pressure plates under the rugs 
**Description** Dozens of ropes embedded with steel barbs spring out from the walls when at least two creatures step on the rugs. 
**Disable** *Thievery DC 24* (expert) on the pressure plates. 
**AC** 22; **Fort** +11, **Ref** +16 **Hardness** 13; 
**HP** 54 (BT 27) to cut the barbed ropes and disable the trap; **Immunities** critical hits, object immunities, precision damage 
**Entangling Ropes** `pf2:r` (attack); **Trigger** Two creatures enter the hallway or end their turn in the hallway; **Effect** The trap makes a barbed rope Strike against the triggering creatures. This trap doesn’t take a multiple attack penalty. 
**Melee** `pf2:1` barbed rope +20, **Damage** 4d8+14 slashing plus grasping ropes 
**Grasping Ropes** The ropes whip around the limbs of the target. The target must attempt a *DC 25 Reflex save*. 
**Success** The target is unaffected. 
**Failure** The target is flat-footed until it cuts the ropes or Escapes (*DC 25*). 
**Critical Failure** As failure, but the target is also immobilized. 
**Reset** manual 

### C2. STUDY MODERATE 5 
==Toppled bookcases clutter the floor of this room, and a large writing desk along the eastern wall is covered in scattered papers and bits of broken glass. Splintered and broken chairs lie in a pile to the northeast. The only untouched beauty in the room is the stained glass artwork of geometric designs set in windows ten feet up the eastern wall.== 
When they wanted to get away from the noise of the workshop and study the works of other inventors, Dhia would come here to think, write, and design. Zridi found the inventor here while they were working on the next part of the mechanism for the mechanical head and ambushed them. The nuglub gremlins have since torn the place apart and made it their headquarters. 
**Creatures**: The four nuglubs who came with Noolik spend most of their time here, slowly shredding books, wrecking furniture, and squabbling over their finds. If they hear the trap going off in the hallway, they attempt to sneak up and kill anyone caught by their device. The nuglubs fight until two of them are defeated. Should that happen, any remaining gremlins try to get to the workshop (area C5) and warn Noolik if they think they can get there safely; otherwise, they try to flee the building. 
**Treasure**: The PCs find a pile of treasure the gremlins collected in a corner: a *dust of appearance*, *scroll of glass sand*, a vial of *hunting spider venom*, and 46 gp. A character who *Searches* the room and succeeds at a *DC 19 Perception check* also finds a few schematics that give insights into the mechanical head. Possessing these schematics provides a +1 item bonus to any Engineering checks involving the mechanical head.

#### ELITE NUGLUB (4) CREATURE 3 
[Small](https://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=445) [Fey](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=69) [Gremlin](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=221)   
**Perception** +7; [darkvision](https://2e.aonprd.com/MonsterAbilities.aspx?ID=12)  
**Languages** [Undercommon](https://2e.aonprd.com/Languages.aspx?ID=11)  
**Skills** [Acrobatics](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=1) +**10**, [Crafting](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=4) +**7** (+**9** traps), [Intimidation](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=7) +**9**, [Stealth](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=15) +**10**  
**Str** +1, **Dex** +4, **Con** +3, **Int** -1, **Wis** -1, **Cha** +1
**AC** 20; **Fort** +11, **Ref** +12, **Will** +7  
**HP** 49; **Weaknesses** cold iron 2  
**Kneecapper** `pf2:r` **Trigger** A Medium creature within the nuglub's reach leaves a square during its [move](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=114) action; **Effect** The nuglub lashes out at the triggering creature's knees and tries to knock them [prone](https://2e.aonprd.com/Conditions.aspx?ID=31). The nuglub makes an Acrobatics check against the creature's Reflex DC. On a success, the target falls and lands prone.
**Speed** 30 feet, climb 20 feet  
**Melee** `pf2:1` bite +13 (+8/+3) ([finesse](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=179)), **Damage** 1d8+3 piercing plus [Grab](https://2e.aonprd.com/MonsterAbilities.aspx?ID=18)
**Melee** `pf2:1` claw +**13** (+9/+5) ([agile](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=170), [finesse](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=179)), **Damage** 1d6+3 slashing
**Primal Innate Spells** *DC 20*, attack +10 (**+4 dmg**); **2nd** _[shatter](https://2e.aonprd.com/Spells.aspx?ID=279)_; **1st** _[grease](https://2e.aonprd.com/Spells.aspx?ID=140)_, _[shocking grasp](https://2e.aonprd.com/Spells.aspx?ID=283)_; **Cantrips** **(1st)** _[prestidigitation](https://2e.aonprd.com/Spells.aspx?ID=229)_  
**Sneak Attack** A nuglub's Strikes deal an additional 1d6 precision damage to off-guard targets, or 1d10 if the target is [prone](https://2e.aonprd.com/Conditions.aspx?ID=31).

### C3. WASHROOM
This simple washroom contains little more than a basin for washing and a toilet that connects to the city’s sewer system. There are clear signs that it was being renovated when Dhia was taken, as the tinkerer had some ideas for improvements. 
### C4. BEDROOM 
==This room stinks of rot, the source of which appears to be a human corpse on the floor next to the bed, a pool of sticky, dried blood surrounding it. The dresser has been smashed, and the contents of the room have been ransacked.== 
The corpse is one of Dhia’s assistants who ran here hoping to escape the gremlin attack. He was cut down by the nuglub goblins and left to bleed to death. A character who Investigates and succeeds at a *DC 21 Medicine check* can tell this person died a few weeks ago. 
**Treasure**: Although the gremlins took most of his items, they overlooked the *holy prayer beads* the assistant owned. 
#### C5. WORKSHOP SEVERE 5 
==This cavernous room is filled from floor to ceiling with all manner of mechanical devices in various states of construction and repair. Steel supports form a fifteen-foot-wide gantry that runs from the southern side of the room up to a large cargo door on the north wall. Numerous chains, pulleys, and gears are attached to the crane, and half-constructed machinery dangles from the gantry in several places. 
The smell of oil wafts throughout the area, carried on a light, cool breeze that flows from the floor to the ceiling and up through exhaust vents high above. Workbenches and shelves line most of the walls, but many of their contents appear to be scattered all over the floor. The northeast corner of the room has a raised platform accessed by a fixed metal ladder.== 
Dhia’s workshop is a testament to their creative ingenuity, but the gremlins have turned the chamber into a deadly trap. With access to better tools and materials than usual, they’ve produced an impressive device. Since they knew someone would come to investigate eventually, the gremlins designed the machinery to have a pattern to its movements so they can remain safe from it. 
**Creatures**: The leader of this gang of terrors is Noolik, a jinkin who has been one of the more successful gremlins in Lamasara, as well as a scourge to the inventors who make their homes in the city. She enjoys violence and getting her sword bloody. She and her three companions *flee* if wounded below half their Hit Points. 

#### NOOLIK CREATURE 4 
Jinkin leader 
CE TINY FEY GREMLIN 
**Perception** +11; darkvision 
**Languages** Undercommon 
**Skills** Acrobatics +12, Crafting +10 (+12 traps), Deception +8, Nature +8, Stealth +12, Thievery +12 
Str +0, Dex +6, Con +2, Int +3, Wis +3, Cha +3 
**Items** shortsword, traveler’s any-tool 
**AC** 21; **Fort** +9, **Ref** +14, **Will** +10 
**HP** 58; **Weaknesses** cold iron 4 
**Speed** 30 feet 
**Melee** `pf2:1` shortsword +14 (agile, finesse, magical, versatile S), **Damage** 1d6+5 piercing 
**Primal Innate Spells** *DC 21*; Cantrips (1st) prestidigitation 
**Sneak Attack** Noolik deals an additional 2d6 precision damage to flat-footed creatures. 
**Tinker** (curse, primal, transmutation) A group of six jinkins can work together for an hour to imbue an item with a curse at a range of 60 feet. While this process is lengthy, it’s also unobtrusive and can be performed while Hiding. Jinkins prefer to use this ability on magic items. The curse makes the item unreliable (*DC 5 flat check* or waste any action to Interact with or Activate the item), adds a bizarre requirement to use the item, or imparts some other curse of a similar caliber. 
**Trap Tinker** `pf2:3` Noolik can cause a complex mechanical trap to continue longer than its normal duration. She moves up to her speed and Interacts with a trap. The trap can use its reaction during its next round as well as its routine, although its initiative doesn’t change. 
#### ELITE JINKIN (3) CREATURE 2 
[Small](https://2e.aonprd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=445) [Fey](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=599) [Gremlin](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=756)   
**Perception** +**9**; [darkvision](https://2e.aonprd.com/MonsterAbilities.aspx?ID=59)  
**Languages** [Sakvroth](https://2e.aonprd.com/Languages.aspx?ID=118)  
**Skills** [Acrobatics](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=1) +**9**, [Crafting](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=4) +**7** (+**9** traps), [Deception](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=5) +**7**, [Nature](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=10) +**7**, [Stealth](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=15) +**9**, [Thievery](https://2e.aonprd.com/Skills.aspx?ID=17) +**9**  
**Str** -2, **Dex** +4, **Con** +0, **Int** +2, **Wis** +2, **Cha** +2  
**Items** [shortsword](https://2e.aonprd.com/Weapons.aspx?ID=43)
**AC** **17**; **Fort** +**8**, **Ref** +**12**, **Will** +**9**  
**HP** **29**; **Weaknesses** [cold iron](https://2e.aonprd.com/Equipment.aspx?ID=375) 2
**Speed** 30 feet  
**Melee** `pf2:1` shortsword +11 (+7/+3) ([agile](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=170), [finesse](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=179), [reach 0 feet](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=192), [versatile S](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=200)), **Damage** 1d6 piercing
**Primal Innate Spells** *DC 19* (**+4 dmg**); **Cantrips** **(1st)** _[prestidigitation](https://2e.aonprd.com/Spells.aspx?ID=229)_  
**Sneak Attack** The jinkin deals 1d6 extra precision damage to [off-guard](https://2e.aonprd.com/Conditions.aspx?ID=58) creatures.
**Tinker** ([curse](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=38), [primal](https://2e.aonprd.com/Traits.aspx?ID=134)) A group of six jinkins can work together for an hour to imbue an item with a curse at a range of 60 feet. While this process is lengthy, it's also unobtrusive and can be performed while [Hiding](https://2e.aonprd.com/Actions.aspx?ID=2404). Jinkins prefer to use this ability on magic items. The curse makes the item unreliable (DC **7** flat check or waste any action to Interact with or Activate the item), adds a bizarre requirement to use the item, or imparts some other curse of a similar caliber.

**Hazard**: The machinery and parts Dhia used in their work have been repurposed into a mechanical trap designed to attack anyone in the room. By tapping into the windmill on the roof of the building for power, the gremlins have been able to construct a far more complex trap than usual. They even took the time to memorize the pattern of the slashing blades to keep themselves safe while it runs. As long as they move at least 10 feet each round, they don’t treat the room as difficult terrain nor are they targeted by the slashing blade attack. A gremlin who’s moved to a space against their will isn’t safe from the trap for that turn. 

#### DEADLY WORKSHOP HAZARD 5 
UNCOMMON COMPLEX MECHANICAL TRAP 
**Stealth** *+16* (expert) to notice the blades embedded in the chains and the complex system of pulleys connecting them 
**Description** Swinging bladed chains whip through the entire workshop. 
**Disable** *Thievery DC 20* (expert) on the control panel on the raised platform deactivates the trap. 
**AC** 21; **Fort** +12, **Ref** +14; **Hardness** 14; 
**HP** 50 (BT 25) to destroy the chains and disable the trap; **Immunities** critical hits, object immunities, precision damage 
**Swinging Blades** `pf2:r` (attack); **Trigger** Two or more creatures enter the workshop or end their turn in the workshop; **Effect** The trap makes a slashing blade Strike against the triggering creatures, then rolls initiative. 
**Routine** (1 action) The trap swings one slashing blade against every creature in the workshop as 1 action. The entire workshop is treated as difficult terrain because of the sheer number of slashing chains. This trap doesn’t take a multiple attack penalty. 
**Melee** slashing blade +15, **Damage** 2d8+7 slashing 
**Reset** The trap deactivates and resets after 1 minute. 
**Treasure**: There’s a new part to the mechanical head found here. See Investigating the Workshop below. Characters who *Search* the room also find a pair of greater clockwork goggles and a total of 85 gp.

### INVESTIGATING THE WORKSHOP 
With the gremlins defeated and the trap disabled or destroyed, the PCs can take the time to examine the shop closely for clues about where to find the poet and tinkerer. A character who *Searches* for at least 10 minutes finds two interesting items. In the small office atop the raised platform in the workshop, they find a toppled cabinet that contains an ebony and silver music box with a winding key in a compartment on the bottom. Attached to this music box by a string is a note that reads: “Dhia, I hope you find this to your liking. It reminds me of you. Your Friend, FF.” When wound and activated, the music box plays a delicate, precise tune. 
In addition, there are additional letters very much in the same vein as the correspondence in Valls’s house. These messages don’t mention names of the people writing, but instead refer to one another as “V,” “D,” and “S.” A character who Searches and succeeds at a *DC 19 Perception or Society check* finds a part of the letter that V wrote about meeting with one of the patrons to raise funds for the project. V notes that this patron seemed quite upset when he told her he was going to be putting off the third volume of his poetry to work on this project instead. The patron isn’t named. 
