## The Music Box Maker 
Lamasara is the home to scores of expert artisans and craftspeople who cater to the artists and musicians who call the city home. Instrument crafters, ink and dye makers, costumers, and innumerable others all contribute to the city’s reputation as a haven for the arts. One such artisan is *Fingiliam Fenferen* (CG female gnome crafter), who has combined her love of music with her passion for mechanical devices. Focused and intense, Fingiliam spends much of her day hunched over a workbench while she uses tiny tools to build the miniature devices her customers love. While she normally assigns most of the ordinary work to her staff of three, she does undertake an occasional special project. One such recent project was for Dhia, who collaborated with the gnome to have one of Sefalia’s songs played on the item. 
Identifying the maker of the box is a simple enough matter since the double-F logo engraved on the bottom is widely recognized in Lamasara. A character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Society or Crafting check* immediately knows it was made by Fingiliam. 
Alternatively, a character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Gather Information check* and shows the box to a few citizens finds someone within an hour who recognizes the logo and knows where to find the gnome’s shop. Finally, Fingiliam’s Fancies, the shop owned by the gnome, is only a few blocks from Dhia’s workshop and on the same street. A character who succeeds at a *DC 18 Perception check* can locate it after 30 minutes of searching the neighborhood. 
When the PCs arrive at the shop, read or paraphrase the following. 
==An elegant wooden sign reads “Fingiliam’s Fancies” outside the door of this simple building. Inside, tinkling music plays softly from several places within the shop. The area near the door has shelves along two walls and a glass display case along the third, and a doorway leads to another room. The shelves are lined with small music boxes, some simple in design, others ornate works of art with intricate inlays, glass coverings, tiny bellows, fine strings, or small mechanical figures within. Some of these boxes are open to reveal the complex inner mechanisms. Next to the display case is a low wooden counter covered with a black cloth on which sit tiny gears, bells, screws, and springs. A gnome woman with a shock of purple hair looks up from the counter where she’d been carefully working, her eyes magnified by the series of lenses on her goggles. “Can I help you?” she asks.==
Fingiliam is happy to answer questions from the PCs, and she brightens up at the mention of Dhia, whom she considers a friend and confidant. If the PCs show her the music box, read or paraphrase the following. 
==The gnome gently takes the box and turns it over in her hands, carefully examining it before popping the top open. She slides open a compartment on the underside, pulls out a key, then winds the box. She flips a switch, and the box begins playing. Fingiliam smiles at the sound. “Yes, I made this for Dhia. Do you know them?” ==
If Fingiliam is made aware of Dhia’s disappearance, she grows very concerned and immediately asks the PCs who they are again and what they’re going to do about her missing friend. Once she calms down a bit, she explains that she made the box for Dhia after one of their many coffee discussions in recent weeks. Dhia was curious about other methods for incorporating music into clockwork creatures, so Fingiliam thought to provide a sample music box that Dhia could study. The gnome doesn’t make clockwork creatures, although she understands how to do so. “More trouble than they’re worth, in my opinion,” she says. 
If presented with the mechanical head, the gnome’s curiosity is piqued. She offers to examine the device and see if she can share any additional information. If the PCs agree, the gnome spends 20 minutes working intently, muttering most of the time. PCs who are trained in Engineering can follow the basics of what the gnome is saying, and those who are expert or higher understand she’s looking for redundant systems and hidden functions. Fingiliam is happy to explain what she’s doing to those who show such skill or interest. A character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Engineering check* provides useful advice to the gnome, who’s genuinely excited at their suggestions. This aid also reduces the time it takes the gnome to inspect the head by 10 minutes. When the head asks the gnome what she’s doing, Fingiliam replies, “Trying to help you. Now be quiet, you chatterbox!” After this time has passed, read or paraphrase the following. 
==With a surprised exclamation, the gnome’s long eyebrows arch dramatically. “Dhia, you clever, clever human!” she says. Without taking her eyes off the device, she raises a hand to forestall any questions. “Hiding away a redundant recording device beneath the capture converter, eh? Smart,” she mutters. She pries open a panel in the back, fiddles with a few gears and springs with her tools, then closes it again. “All right,” she says to the mechanical head, tapping it on the nose gently with her finger, “what else have you got to say?” The device makes a few clicking and whirring noises, followed by a garbled response, then says, “Oh, it seems to be another part of the poem. Shall I recite it?” ==
If the PCs agree, the head says the following:
==“But we are Thuvia, one people, Of endurance under the sun’s heat, Of strength against our enemies, Of honor for our ancient ways.”== 
The gnome doesn’t know anything about this poem or its source, although a character who succeeds at a *DC 20 Performance or Poetry Lore check* can tell this stanza follows the same general style and pattern as the previous one and is likely part of the same work. 
If the PCs ask about Dhia and their whereabouts, the gnome admits that she hasn’t seen them in at least two weeks, maybe more. She was planning to visit at some point, but business has been picking up lately. Any news about the trouble the PCs encountered at Dhia’s 28 workshop is met with shock and concern. Fingiliam admits she doesn’t leave her shop very often, but she has heard some rumors of a tall, handsome man who had been caught skulking around in Dhia’s neighborhood. The rumor’s source thought the man was a janni. As for gremlins, the gnome does know that they’re a perpetual concern for the inventors and craftspeople, but they aren’t usually so coordinated and organized. 
**XP Award**: If the PCs speak with Fingiliam about Dhia or have her repair the head, award them 60 XP. 